 

CHAPTER I: rn laa
~ e E: blow fro: oleth’s tentacle c use a terri
MONSTERS ATOZ Giese. A cagtlbkines eenclowse eacoudon seat

    

   

 

   

    
 

 

 

      

         
    

This book contains hundreds of crearures fot use in any Duncros [Fortitude save or begin to transform over the next 1d4+1 minutes,
& Deacons game, Refer to the Glossary, starting on. page 305, for, _|the skin gradually becoming.aclear, slimy membrane. An afflicted
definitions of common features and abilities of individual 4 with cool, fresh water o}
\sters. In most cases, a monster entry describes a typical individual idi2 points of damage every 10 minutes. The slime reduces the
of the kind in question, which is the most co version en-| never to less th,
countered by characters on adventures. The DM can modify these} save DC is Constitution-based.
entries, create advanced or weaker versions, of alter any statistics A remove disease spell cast before the transformation is complete
to.play a monster against. type.and surprise the player characters. will restore an afflicted crearure to normal, Afterward, however,
And now, let's meet the monsters. only a heal or mass heal spell can reverse the afflict

     

Mucus Cloud (Ex): An aboleth underwater surrounds itself

1 with a viscous cloud of mucus roughly 1 foot thick. Any. creature
AB OLETH 9 “coring teroicchascr widh and inhaling thieademncecuarox

   

      

     

The cool, refreshing water suddenly erupts in a storm of reaching, grasp ceed on a DC 19 Fortitude save or lose the ability to breathe air for
ing tentacles. The tentacles connect to a primeval fish, 20 feet in length, ithe next 3 hours. An affected creature suffocates in 2d6 minutes if
Stam its bulbous head to its crescent-shaped tail, Three slit-shaped ayes.\. _,zemoved from the. water. Renewed contact with the mucus cloud.

 

 

ues the e

   

de save conti fect for
another 3 hours. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Skills: An aboleth has a +8 racial bonus on any
Swim check to perform some. special action. or
zard. It can always choose to take
10 on a Swim check, even if distracted
or endangered. It can use the

run action while swim
ming, provided it swims,
ina straight line

   

ne atop the o

which remains just beneath the surface as it attacks

her in the front of its head, and failing another Fortit

 

protected by bony ridges, are s

  
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
 

   

   

ad primarily in

naquatic creatures

The aboleth is a revolting
subterranean lakes and rivers. It desy
d attempts to destroy them on sigh
An aboleth has a pink belly. Four
black orifices line the
(crete gray.slime that smells like r
for propulsion in the water
and drags itself along with its ten
land. An aboleth w

shlike amphibian fou

 

avoid a hi

 

es all

   

          

ulsating blue.
dy

   

ind se

ottom of its

 

 

acid grease
It uses its tail

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

  
   

      

 

 

     
 

     

 

     

           

     

        

 

about 6,500 pounds,
Aboleths are cruel and
highly intelligent, mak ee!
ing them dangerous pred
ators. They know many ancient and terrible
secrets, for they inherit their parents’ know!
¢ at birth and assimilate the memories of Aboleths
I they consume.
Aboleths are smart enough to ref
from immediately attacking land dw
who draw near. Instead they ha
hoping their prey will he water, which
they often make appear cool, clear, and refreshing with their -
powers of illusion. Aboleths also use their psionic abilitiesto ABOLE MA
enslave individuals for use against their own. companions Among the watery sake cod Sungmonhey inhabit, the lords of
Aboleths have both male and female reproductive organs. They the abo! ir efforts to achieve dominion through thi
breed in solitude, laying 1d3 eggs every five years. These eggs grow study of mr Their great power marks them as among the
|for another five years before hatching into full-grown aboleths. lords of all subterranean creatures. Still, these creatures, devoted
Although the young are physically mature, they remain with their to their arcane scholarship, spend. most of their long lives alone

 

parent for some ten years. obeying the older creatu
Aboleths speak their own language, as well as { I
and Aquan. The save DC for the aboleth mage's

transformation tentacle

 

 

   

    

       

     

       

 

 

   

- attack (DC 21) and its mucus cloud (DC 21) are adjusted for its
COMBAT higher Constitution score. The save DC for its enslave ability
An aboleth attacks by flailing with its | DC 16) is adjusted for irs lower Charisma score, as are the save
though it prefers to fight from.a distance using its illusion powers. DCs for its psionic abilities: Hypnotic pattern (DC 14), ilusory.wall
Enslave (Su): T times_per day, an.abaleth can.attempt to DC 16), mirage arcana (DC 17), persistent image (DC 12), pre
enslave any one living creature within 30 feet. The target must grammed image (DC 18), project image (DC 19), veil (DC 18). Effec-
succeed on a DC 17 Will save or be affected as though by a domi- tive caster level 16!
nate person spell (caster level 16th). An enslaved creature. obeys the The aboleth mage uses a number of spells, such as displai
aboleths telepathic commands until freed by remove curse, and can greater invisibility, and wall of force, to. protect itself while seizing
jattempt a new. Will save every 24 hours to break free. The control control of its foes with spells and innate abilities,

   

a1

alarm, charm person,

 

and Spells Prepared (4/6/5/4/4/3; save DC 15 + sp

   

is.also broken if the aboleth travels more than 1 mile
its slave. The save DC is Charisma-based.

Psionics (Sp): At will—hypnotic pattern (DC 15), illusory wall (DC colo
17),.mirage arcana (DC 18), persistent image (DC 18), programmed. darkness, fox’s cunning, see inv

   

ze, detect magic (2 tance; 1st—

  
 

spmays.mage.armor, magic missile (2); 2nd
yi. 3rd

jur, bull's strength

   
   

 
