    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 

    
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
       

A large creature stands on four stiltlike legs. It has
@ birdlike body, round and plump, about the size
of @ small pony, balariced atop its legs. Feathers
that range in color from_brown to red cover its
body, and its terrible. claws.and beak glint like
burnished metal.

Achaierais are massive, 15-foor-tall flight-
less birds that inhabit the plane of
Acheron and are only occasionally
encountered elsewhere, They are. /
evil, clever, and predatory, with a dis- \ \
tinct taste for torture.

Achaierais speak Infernal. They weigh
about 750 pounds,

COMBAT

In close combat, an achaierai lashes

jout.with vo of its four legs and snaps
with its powerful beak. It makes fre-
quent use of its Spring Attack fear
to strike quickly and then retreat
our of range before an enemy can
counterattack.

An achaierai’s natural weapons,
as well as any weapons it wields, are
treated as evil-aligned and lawful
aligned for the purpose of overcoming
damage reduction "

Black Cloud (Ex): Up to three times per day
an achaierai can release a choking, toxic black cloud.
Those other than achaierai within 10 feet instantly take 2d6
points of damage. They must also succeed on.a DC 15 Fortitude
save or be affected for 3 hours as though by an insanity spell
(caster level 16th), The save DC is Constitution-based.

ALLIP

 

Illus. by B.Swaddy

Medium Undead (Incorporeal)

Hit Dice: 412 (26 hp)

Initiative: +5

Speed: Fly 30 ft. (perfect) (6 squares)

Armor Class: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 deflection), touch 15, flat-footed 14
Base Attack/Grapple: +

Attack: Incorporeal touch +3 melee (1d4 Wisdom drain’

Full Attack: Incorporeal touch +3.melee (1d¢. Wisdom drain)
Space/Reach: 5 ft,/s ft.

Special Attacks: Babble, madness, Wisdom drain

Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft,, incorporeal traits, +2 turn

resistance, undead traits

Saves: Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +4

Abilities: Str —, Dex 12, Con —, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 18
Skills; Hide +8, Intimidate +7, Listen +7, Search +4, Spot +7,

Survival +0 (+2 following tracks)

Feats; Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes
Environment: Any

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Rating: 3

Treasure: None

Alignment; Always neutral evil
Advancement: 5-12 HD (Medium)
Level Adjustment:

 

 

 

 

The. creature. that floats before. you is like a thing out of nightmare. It has.
vaguely humanoid shape, but it’s a shape without features that has been
distorted and bristles with madness. From the waist down, it trails away into.
vaporous nothingness, leaving a faint trace of fog behind it as it moves

An allip is the spectral remains of
someone driven to suicide by amad-
ness that afflicted it in life, Ir craves
only revenge and unrelentingly.
pursues those who tormented it in
life and pushed it over the brink.

An allip cannot speak intelligibly.

COMBAT

An allip is unable to cause physical
harm, although it doesn't appear to
know that. Ir keeps flailing away at
SF enemies, yet it inflicts no wounds

Babble (Su); An allip constantly
mutters and whines to itself, creat-
ing a hypnotic effect, All sane crea-
tures within 60 feet of the allip must
succeed on a DC 16 Will save or be.
affected as though by a hypnotism
spell for 2d4 rounds, This is a sonic
mind-affecting compulsion effect.
Creatures that successfully save can:
not be affected by the same allip’s
babble for 24 hours. The save DC is
Charisma-based..

Madness (Su): Anyone targeting
an allip with a thought detection,
mind control, or telepathic ability makes.
direct contact with its tortured mind and.
takes 1d4 points of Wisdom damage.

Wisdom Drain (Su): An allip causes
1d4 points of Wisdom drain each time it
hits with its incorporeal touch attack. On
Leach such successful attack, it gains 5 temporary hit

points.

 

  

 

 

 

Allip

ANGEL

Angels are a race of celestials, beings who live on the good-aligned
Outer Planes. Celestials positively drip with goodness—every fiber
of their bodies and souls is suffused swith it. They are the natural ene
mies of demons and devils (creatures of the infernal realms)

Angels can be of any good alignment. Lawful good angels hail
from the plane of Celestia, neutral good angels from the plane of

ysiuum or the Beastlands, and chaotic good angels from plane of
Arborea. Regardless of their alignment, angels never lie, cheat, or
steal. They are impeccably honorable in all their dealings and often
prove the most trustworthy and diplomatic of all the celestials,

All angels are blessed with comely looks, though their actual
appearances vary widely

Angels speak Celestial, Infernal, and Draconic, though they can
speak with almost any creature because of their tongues ability

COMBAT
Though they are honorable and good, angels dont hesitate to back
up their arguments with their weapons and other powers when
necessary. Though they do not relish combat, they donot hesitate
to take the battle to the enemy. In combat, most angels make full
use of their mobility and their ability to attack at a distance.

Angel Traits: An angel possesses the following traits (unless.
otherwise noted in.a.creature's entry

—Darkvision our to 60 feet and low-light vision.

-Immunity.to acid, cold, and petrification.
—Resistance.to electricity 10 and fire 10.
+4racial bonus on saves against poison,

—Pmtective Auna (Su); Against attacks made or effects created by

evil creatures, this ability provides a+4 deflection bonus to AC anda

  

 

 

 

 
