¢

An ankheg burrows with legs and mandibles. A burrowing
ankheg usually does not make a usable tunnel, but can construct
a tunnel; it burrows at half speed when it does so. tt often digs a
winding tunnel up to 40 feet below the surface in the rich soil of
forests or farmlands. The tunnel is 5 feet tall and wide,and from 60
to 150 feet long ({tdt0 + 5] x 10), The hollowed ends of the tunnel
erve as temporary lairs for sleeping, eating, or hibe

‘An ankheg can eat decayed organic matter but prefers fresh
meat. Though a hungry ankheg might kill a farmer, the creature is
quite beneficial to farmland. Its tunnel system laces the soil with
passages for air and water, while its wastes add rich nutrie

COMBAT
Anankheg usually lies 5 to.10 feet below the
surface until its antennae detect
the approach of prey..It
then_burrows_ up_to.
attack. (Treat this asa
charge, even though
the ankheg does not
need to move 10 feet
before attacking

 

 

 

 

nating

 

 

 

    
  
   

 

 

Clusters of ank:
hegs share the
same territory but
do not cooperate. If
several attack, each
tries to grab a dif
there aren't enou
two might grab the
same creature in a
tug-of-wa

Improved
Grab (Ex): To
use.this ability, an
ankheg must hit with
its bite attack. It.can then attempt to start.a grapple asa free action
without provoking an attack of opportunity. If the ankheg is dam:
aged after grabbing its prey, it retreats backward down its tunnel at
its land speed (not its burrow speed), dragging the victim with it

Spit Acid (Ex): 30-ft. line, once every 6

 

t foe. If

h targets,

 

    

 

 

 

  

 

nours; damage 444

acid, Reflex DC 14 half One such attack depletes the ankheg's

   

supply for 6 hours. It cannot spit acid or deal acid damage
g this time, The save DC is Constitution-based.

An ankheg does not use this ability unless it is desperate or
ustrated, It most often spits acid when reduced to fewer than
its full normal hit points or when it has not successfully

grabbed an opponent.

 

 

  

 

Medium Magical Beast (Shapechanger)

Hit Dice: 3d10+6 (22 hp)

Initiative: +6

Speed: 50 ft. (10 squares), climb 25 ft

Armor Class: 13 (+2 Dex, +1 natural

Base Attack/Grapple; +3/+3

Attack: Bite +5 melee (1d6 plus poison) or web +5 ranged

Full Attack: Bite +5 melee (1d6 plus poison) or web +5 ranged

Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft

Special Attacks; Poison, spells, web

|Special Qualities: Change shape, darkvision 60 ft,. low-light vision

\Saves; Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +4

Abilities: Str 11, Dex 15,.Con 14, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14

Skills; Climb +14, Concentration +8, Escape Artist +5, Jump +13,
Listen +6, Spot +6

touch 12, flat-footed 11

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feats: Improved Initiative, Iron Will", Weapon Finesse
Environment: Temperate forests

Organization: Solitary or colony (3-6. 1
Challenge Rating: 4

Treasure: Standard coins; double goods; standard items
Alignment: Usually neutral

Advancement: By character class

Level Adjustment: +4

 

The creature appears to be a monstrous spider but it has
humonlike arms below its mandibles.

10. small

 

 

 

An aranea is an intelligent, shapechanging spider with sorcerous
powers, In its natural form, an aranea resembles a big spider, with
a humpbacked body a little bigger than. a human torso. Ithas{
fanged mandibles like a normal spider. Two small arms, cach about
andibles. Each arm has a hand with
four many-jointed fingers and a
double-jointed thumb.
An aranea weighs about 150
pounds. The hump on its back
houses its brain.
Araneas speak Common and
Sylvan.

COMBAT
An aranea avoids physical com
batand uses its webs.and |
spells. when it can_In,

a battle, it tries 10
immobilize or distract.
the most.aggressive
opponents first.

Araneas_often.
subdue opponents
for ransom.

Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 13, initial damage 1dé6 Str
lary damage 2d6 Str. The save DC is Constituti

 

 

 

2 feet long, lie below the n

      
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
   

 

Ankheg

 

  

 

  

 

  

n-based.

 

secon

   

Spells: An aranea casts spells asa 3rd-level sorcerer. It prefers
illu

 

ions and enchantments and avoids fire spells
Typical Sorcerer Spells Known. (6/6; save DC 12 + spell level): 0

ni,

    

 

detect magic, gf Ke; Lst—mage armor, silent

  

age, sleep,

Web (Ex): In spider or hybrid form
can throw a.web up to six times per day. This is similar to an
attack with a.net bur has a
range increment of 10 feet, and is effective against targets of
up to Large size. The web anchors the target in place, allowing
no movement.

An entangled creature can escape with a DC 13 Escape Artist
check or burst the web with a.DC 17 Strength check. The check
DCs are Constitution-based, and the Strength check DC includes
a +4racial bonus. The web has 6 hit points, hardness 0, and takes
double damage from fire.

Change Shape (Su); An aranea’s natural form is that of a
Medium monstrous spider, It can assume two other forms, The
first is a unique Small or Medium humanoid; an aranea in its
humanoid form always.assumes the same appearance and traits,
much as.alycanthrope would. In humanoid form,an aranea
not use its bite attack, webs, or poison.

The second form is a Medium spider—humanoid hybrid. In
hybrid form, an aranea looks like a Medium humanoid at first
glance, but.a DC 18 Spor check reveals the creature's fangs an
ts, The aranea retains its bite attack, webs, and poison
rm, and can also wield weapons or wear armor. Whi
hybrid form, an aranea's speed is 30 feet (6 squares,

   

see bel

 

w), an aran

    

naximum range of 50 feet, wi

 

   

 

 

   

in

 
