   
   
    
 
 
  
 
   

An aranea remains in one form until it chooses to assume a new

one,.A.change in form cannot be dispelled, nor does an aranea}

revert to its natural form when killed, A true seeing spell, however,
reveals its natural form if it is in humanoid or hybrid form.

Skills: Araneas have a +2 racial bonus on Jump, Listen, and
Spot checks. They have a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks and
can always choose to take 10 on Climb checks even if rushed or
threatened.

“Archons are celestials from the plane of Celestia, They have
charged themselves with the protection of the plane, and also con:
sider themselves guardians of all who are innocent or free of evil.
They are the natural enemies of fiends (creatures of the lower
planes), particularly demons.

Archons speak Celestial, Infernal, and Draconic, but.can speak
with almost any creature because of their tongues ability,

COMBAT
Archons never attack without provocation (though their over
whelming lawful goodness often makes them easily. provoked)
They avoid harming other good creatures if they can, using non
damaging spells or weapon attacks that deal nonlethal damage if
possible. An angry archon. can be vengeance itself, however, no
matter what the foe's alignment is.

Archons generally prefer to meet.a foe head-on if it is prudent
todo so, but ifourmarched, they do what they can to even the odds
(usually by employing hit-and run tactics or standing off and
engaging a foe with magic before moving into melee)

Archon Traits: An archon possesses the following traits (unless

sotherwise noted in a creature's entry

—Darkvision our to 60. feet and low-light vision.

—Aurt of Menace (Su): Arighteous aura surrounds archons that
fight or get angry. Any hostile creature within a 20-foot radius of
an archon must succeed ona Will save to resist its effects, The save
DC varies with the type of archon, is Charisma-based, and
includes a +2 racial bonus, Those.who fail take a -2 penalty on
attacks, ind saves for 24 hours or until they successfully hit
the archon that generated the aura. A creature that has resisted or
broken the effect cannot be affected again by. the same archon’s
aura for 24 hours.

Immunity to electricity and petrification.

— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.

—Magic Circle against Evil (Su); A magic. circle against evil
effect always surrounds an archon (caster level equals the
archon's Hit Dice). (The defensive benefits from the circle are
not included in an archon’s statistics block.

   

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
 

—Teleport (Sw): Archons can use greater teleport at will, as the
spell (caster level 14th), except thar the creature can transportonly
itsel£and up.to 50 pounds of objects.

—Tongues (Su): All archons can speak with any creature that has
la language, as though using afongues spell (caster level 14th), This
ability is always active.

LANTERN ARCHON
Small Outsider (Archon, Extraplanar, Good, Lawful)
Hit Dice: 1d8 (4 hp:
Initiative: ++
Speed: Fly 60 ft. (perfect) (12 squares)
Armor Class: 15 (+1 size, +4 natural
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/-8
Attack: Light ray +2 ranged touch (1d6
Full Attack: 2 light rays +2 ranged touch (1d6,
Space/Reach: 5 ft,/s ft.
|Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities
Special Qualities; Aura of menace, damage reduction 10/evil
and magic, darkyision 60 ft,, immunity to electricity and petri:
fication, magic circle against evil, teleport, tongues
Saves: Fort +2 (+6 against poison), Ref +2, Will +2
Abilities: Str1, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 10
Skills: Concentration +4, Diplomacy +4, Knowledge (the planes
+2, Listen +4, Sense Motive +4, Spot +4
Feats; Improved Initiative
Environment: Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia
Organization: Solitary, pair, or squad (3-5)
Challenge Rating: 2
Treasure; None
Alignment: Always lawful good
Advancement: 2-4 HD (Small
Level Adjustment:

 

 

 

touch 11, flat-footed 15

 

    

 

 

A ball of glowing light floats toward you.

Lantern archons appear as floating balls of light that glow about as
brightly as a torch. Only their destruction can extinguish the
glow, though they can try to hide it.

Lantern archons are very friendly and usually eager to give what
assistance they can, However, theit bodies are just gaseous globes,
and they are much too. weak to render any. material aid. Lantern
archons speak in soft, musical voices

 

  

Combat

A lantern archon has little reason to get within melee range. It
usually hovers just close enough to bring the enemy within its
aura of menace, then blasts away with its light rays, Lantern
archons prefer to concentrate on a single opponent, seeking to
reduce enemy numbers quickly

Aura of Menace (Su); Will DC 12 negates.

Light Ray (Ex); A lantern archon’ light rays have a range of 30
feet, This attack overcomes damage reduction of any type

Spell-Like Abilities; At will—aid, detect evil, continual flame
Caster level 3rd,

HOUND ARCHON
A powerfully built humanoid with the head of a dog appears both serene
and ready for action, with a greatsword strapped across its broad back.and
‘an expression that indicates intelligence and protectiveness.

   

 

Hound archons look like well-muscled humans with canine.
heads. They seek to defend the innocent and the helpless
against evil

Their broad shoulders and meaty fists mark hound archons as
able combatants, Likewise, their strong legs indicate that fleeing
enemies wont get very far.
