Charm Person: The target must succeed on a Will save or be

affected as though by the spell. Beholders use this ray in the same
manner as the charm monster ray.
Disintegrate: The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or be

affected as though by the spell. The beholder likes to use this ray.,

‘on any foe it considers a real threat.

oar This works like she spell, except that. it sargets one creature
(he target must succeed ona Will save or be affected as though by.;
the spell. Beholders like t0.use this ray.against warriors and other}

powerful creatures early ina fight,to break up the opposition.

Finger of Death: The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or be
\slain.as though by the spell. The target takes 3d6+13 points of dam-
age if its saving throw succeeds. Beholders use this ray to elimi-
nate dangerous foes quickly.

Flesh to Stone: The target: must succeed on a Fortitude save or be
affected as though by the.spell. Beholders like to aim this ray at
enemy.spellcasters. They also use it on any creature whose appear-

,ance they find interesting, (After the fight, the beholder takes the}
|statue.to its lairas.a decoration.)

Inflict Moderate Wounds: This works like the spell, causing]
2d8+10 points of damage (Will half).

Sleep: This works like the spell, except thar it affects one creature
with any number of Hit Dice (Will negates). Beholders like to use
this ray against warriors and other physically powerful creatures
They know their foes can quickly awaken the sleepers, but they
also know that doing so takes time.and can delay an effective
counterattack.

Slow: This works like the spell, except that it affects one crea-
ture. The target can make a Will save to negate the effect. Behold-
ers often use this ray against the same creature targeted by their
disintegrate, flesh to stone, or finger of death rayIf one

\of the former rays fails to eliminate the foe, this
ray might at least hamper it.

Telekinesis: A beholder can move objects
or creatures that weigh up to 325 pounds,
as though with a telekinesis spell. Crea-
tures.can resist the effect with a success:
ful Will save.

Antimagic Cone (Su): A beholder's
central eye continually produces a 150-
foot cone of antimagic. This functions }}
just like antimagic field (caster level
13th), All magical and supernatural
powers and effects within the cone.are
suppressed—even the beholder's. own
eye rays. Once each round, during its
turn, the beholder decides whether the
antimagic_cone is active or not_(the
beholder deactivates the cone by shutting its

jcentral eye),

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
 

Beholder Society
Beholders are hateful, aggressive, and avari- )
cious, attacking or dominating others when-
ever they can get away swith it, They exhibit Lae
a xenophobic intolerance, hating all creatures“
not like themselves. The basic hody type. comprises a great variety
of beholder subspecies, Some are covered with overlapping chiti-
nous plates; some have smooth hides or snakelike eye tentacles,
,some have crustacean joints. But even a difference as small as hide
color. or size of the central eye can make two groups.of beholders
|sworn enemies. Every beholder declares its own unique form to.
{be the “true ideal of beholderhood,” the others being nothing but
lugly:replicas fit only to be eliminated.
Beholders usually carve out underground lairs for themselves

using their disintegntte rays. Beholder architecture emphasizes the.|
vertical, and a Jair usually has a number of parallel tubes, with,

Special Attac!
{Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., elemental traits, smoke

chambers stacked.on top of each other. Beholders prefer inacces-|
sible locations that earthbound foes can reach only with difficulty.

{Large Elemental (Air, Extraplanar)
\Hit Dice: 748+7 (38 hp)

Initiative: +5
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), fly 50 ft. (perfect)

_Armor Class: 22 (=1 size, +5 Dex, +8 natural), touch 14,

flat-footed 17

Base Attack/Grapple: +5/+11

Attack: Wing +9 melee (1d6+2)

Full Attack: 2 wings +9 melee (1d6+2) and bite +4 melee (1d4+1)
and_2 claws +4 melee (1d3+1)

Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft

moke claws

 

form

{Saves: Fort +3, Ref +10, Will +2

Abilities: Str 14, Dex 21, Con 13, Int.6, Wis 11, Cha 11
Skills: Listen +7, Move Silently +9, Spot +2__

Feats: Alertness, Multiattack, Weapon Finesse
Environment: Elemental Plane of Air

Organization: Solitary, pair, or clutch (3-4)
Challenge Rating: 6

‘Treasure: None

Alignment: Usually neutral evil

Advancement: 8-10 HD (Large); 11-21 HD (Huge)
Level Adjustment: —

TKJ°D0 A mmoss of dark smoke moves against she breeze, shifting shape as.

it comes closet. Cloudlike, roiling, it suddenly explodes into.a
demonic creature of smoke and wind, with large bat wings,
clawed tendrils, and a biting maw.

Belkers are creatures from the Plane of Air They
are composed primarily of smoke. Although
undeniably evil, hey are very reclusive and
usually have no interest in the affairs of others.

A belker’s winged shape makes it look dis-
tinctly. demonic. Because of its semigaseous
nature, however, it shifts and changes shape
with every puff of wind. It is about 7 feet long

and weighs about 8 pounds.
Belkers speak Auran.

COMBAT.
In most cases, a belker fights with its nasty claws
and painful bite.
Smoke Claws (Ex): A belker in smoke form (see
below) can engulf opponents by.moving on top of them. It fills
the air around one Medium or smaller opponent without pro-
voking an attack of opportunity. The target must
CFSE succeed on a DC 14 Fortitude save or inhale part of
the creature, The save DC is Constitution-based.
Smoke inside the victim solidifies into a claw and begins.to.rip at,
the surrounding organs, dealing 3d4 points of damage per round. ,
An affected creature can attempt another Fortitude save each sub-}
sequent round to.cough out the semivaporous menace.
Smoke Form (Su): Most of the time a belker is more.or less|
solid, but at will it can assume smoke form. It can switch forms}
once per round as.a free action and can spend up.to.20 rounds per |

iday in smoke form. belker in smoke form can fly ata speed of 50
|feet (perfect). The ability is otherwise similar to.a gaseous form spell
caster level 7th).

Skills: Belkers have a +4 racial bonus on Move Silently checks.

 
