with its tentacles and tries to paralyze its victim, The tentacles
deal no other damage. The creature then kills the paralyzed
victim with its bite and devours the flesh. Multiple crawlers do
not fight in concert, but each paralyzes as many oppo
nents.as possible. The unintelligent crea:
ture continues to attack as long.as it
faces any moving opponents.
Paralysis (Ex): Those hit bya
carrion crawler’s tentacle attack,
mustsucceed on a DC 13 Forti
tude save or be paralyzed for 2d4
rounds, The save DC is Constitu-
tion-based.

Skills: Carrion crawlers ha’
+8 racial bonus on Climb checks
and can always choose to take 10

on Climb checks, even if rushed
or threatened

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

     

   

Celestial creatures dwell on the upper planes, the realms of good,
although they resemble beings found on the Material Plane, They
are more regal and more beautiful than their earthly counterparts

Celestial creatures often come in metall
gold, or platinum). They can be mistaken for half-celestials, more
powerful creatures that are created when a celestial mates with a
noncelestial creature.

SAMPLE CELESTIAL CREATURE
Celestial Lion
Large Magical Beast (Augmented Animal, Extraplanar)
Hit Dice: 5d8+10 (32 hp’
Initiative: +3
Speed: 40 ft. (8 squares)
Armor Class; 15 (—1 size, +3 Dex, +3 natural
flat-footed 12
Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+12
Attack: Claw +7 melee (1d4+5.

colors (usually silver,

touch 12

  

Full Attack: 2 claws +7 melee (id4+5) and bite +2. melee (1d:
Space/Reach: 10 ft,/5 ft
Special Attacks; Improved grab, pounce, rake 1d4+2, smite evil

 

 

|Special Qualities: Damage reduction 5/magic, darkvision 60
resistance 10 acid S, cold $, and electricity 5, spell resistance 10

Saves; Fort +6, Ref +7, Will +2

Abilities; Ser 21, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 6

Skills; Balance +7, Hide +3*, Listen +5, Move Silently +11

Spotss.

   

Feats; Alertness, Run

Environment: Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia
Organization: Solitary, pair, or pride (6-10)
Challenge Rating: 4

Treasure: None

Alignment: Always good (any:

Advancement: 6-8 HD (Large:

Level Adjustment;

 

Combat

Ace!

 

| lion's natural weapons are treated as magic weapons for
the purpose of overcoming damage reduction,

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a celestial lion must
hit with its bite attack, It can then attempt to start.a grapple as a
free action without provoking an attack of opportunity, If it wins
the grapple check, it establishes a hold and can rake

Pounce (Ex): Ifa celestial lion charges, it can make a full attack,
including two rake attacks

Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +7 melee, damage 1d4+2.

Skills: Celestial lions have a +4 racial bonus on Balance, Hide,
and Move Silently checks, “In areas.of tall grass or heavy under-
growth, the Hide bonus improves to.+8.

CREATING A CELESTIAL CREATURE
Celestial” is an inherited template that can be added to any
corporeal animal, aberration, animal, dragon, fey, giant, human:
oid, magical beast, monstrous humanoid, plant, or vermin of
good or neutral alignment (referred to hereafter as the base
creature

   

 

 

A celestial creature_uses all the base creature's statistics and

abilities except as noted here. Do not recalculate the creature's
Hit Dice, base attack bonus, saves, or skill points if its type
changes

Size and Type: Animals or vermin with this template become
magical beasts, but otherwise the creature type is unchanged. Size
is unchanged. Celestial creatures encountered on the Material
Plane have the extraplanar subtype.

Special Attacks: A celestial creature retains all the special
attacks of the base creature and also gains the following attack
Smite Evil (Su): Once per day a celestial creature can make
normal melee attack to deal extra damage equal to its HD (ma

mum of +20) against an evil foe.
Special Qualities: A celestial creature retains all the special
qualities of the base creature and also gains the following qualities
Darkyision out to 60 feet.
Damage reduction (see the table below
Resistance to acid, cold, and electricity (see the table below
—Spell resistance equal to HD + 5 (maximum 25,
Resistance to

 

 

 

 

 

Hit Dice Acid, Cold, Electricity __ Damage Reduction
13 5 =
4-7 5 S/magic
en 10 S/magic
12.0r more 10 10/magic

If the base creature already has one or more of these special quali
ties, use the better value.

If a celestial creature gains damage reduction, its natural weap
ons are treated as magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming
damage reduction,

Abilities: Same_as the base creature, but Intelligence is at,
least 3.

Environment: Any good-aligned plane.

Challenge Rating: HD 3 or less, as base creature; HD 4.10 7,
base creature +1; HD.8. or more, as base creature +2

Alignment; Always good (any

Level Adjustment: Same as the base creature +2.

 

as

 

 

 
