c

 

This creature looks like an enormous spider, standing twice.as tall as a
human. Its forelegs end in massive cleavers, Four bulbous eyes, a.malevo-
lent gleam in each one, rise out of its carapace.

A retriever specializes in recovering lost or desired objects, run:
away. slaves,.and enemies and bringing them back to its master
Retrievers were created through foul sorcery to be warriors and
servants to powerful demon nobles, Most scholars bs
ers are built to resemble bebiliths. More powerful demons often.
tasks they

        

 

re. retriey

use these mindless constructs to perform ugly tasks, 0
could not trust to their own scheming kind

A retriever has a body the size of an ox,
than 14 feet. Inweighs about 6,500 pounds.

 

 

th legs spanning more

iba
Retrievers attack with four claws, but th
deadly,

Eye Rays (Su): A retriever's eyes.can produce four different
magical rays with a range of 100 feet. Each round, i
ray asa free action. A particular ray is usable only once every 4
rounds, A retriever can fire an eye ray in the same round that it
makes physical attacks, The save DC for all rays is 18. The save DC
is Dexterity-based.

The four eye effects are
¢: Deals 12d6 points of fire damage to the target (Reflex half

Cold: Deals 12d6 points of cold damage to the target (Reflex half

Electricity; Deals 12d6 points of electricity damage to the target

Reflex half

Petrification: Th
to. stone permanently.

Find Target (Sp): When ordered to find an item or. a.creature, a
retriever does so unerringly, as though guided by discern location,
The being giving the order must have seen (or must have an
item belonging to) the creature to be found, or must have touched
the object ro be located. This ability is the equivalent of an 8th
level spell

 

ir eye rays are far more

an fire one

 

 

   

 

 

 

ed on a Fortitude save or turn

   

target must suce

 

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a retriever must hit
with its bite attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple as.a
free action without provoking an attack of opportunity. If it
wins the grapple check, it establishes a hold and grips the oppo
nent fast in its mouth. This is the method by which it usually
retrieves” things.

 

SUCCUBUS
Medium Outsider (Chaotic, Extraplanar, Evil, Tanar'ri)
Hit Dice: 6d8+6 (33 hp)
Initiative: +1

Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), fly 50 ft. (average

Armor Class: 20 (+1 Dex, +9 narural), touch 14, flat-footed 19

Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+7

Attack: Claw +7 melee (1d6+1

Full Attack: 2 claws +7 melee (1d6+1

Space/Reach: 5 ft./s ft

Special Attacks: Energy drain, spell-like abilities, summon
tanar'ri

Special Qualities: Damage reduction 10/cold iron or good,
darkvision 60 ft,, immunity to electricity and poison, n
toacid 10, cold 10, and fire 10, spell resistance 18, telepathy
100 ft., tongues

Saves: Fort.+6, Ref +6, Will +7

Abilities: Str 13, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 26

Skills: Bluff +19, Concentration +10, Diplomacy +12, Disguise
+17* (+19 acting), Escape Artist +10, Hide +10, Intimidare +19,
Knowledge (any.one) +12, Listen +19, Move Silently +10,
Search +12, Spot +19, Survival +2 (+4 following tracks), Use
Rope +1 (+3 with bindings)

Feats: Dodge, Mobility, Persuasive

Environment: Infinite Layers of the Abyss

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Rating: 7

Treasure: Standard

Alignment: Always chaotic evil

Advancement: 7-12 HD (Medium

Level Adjustment: +6

 

 

 

 

tance

 

   

 

This crea

 

ure is stunning, statuesque, and extraordinarily beautiful, with
her

   

flawless skin and raven. hair. Hee form,
worldly side. Large bat wings unfurl from her back, and her eyes glow with
sinister desire.

tempting, also has an

   

Succubi are the most comely of the tanar'ri (perhaps of all
and they live to tempt mortals.

A succubus is 6 feet tall in its natural form and w
125 pounds,

   

ombat

Succubi are not warriors. They flee combat whe
forced to fight, they.can artack with their claws, but they pre!
turn foes against one another. Succubi use their polymorph ability
to assume humanoid guise, and can maintain this deception inde
initely. Their preferred tactic when dealing with heroes is to fe
friendship and create an opportunity to be alone with one of
them, whereupon the succubus applies her life-draining kiss, Suc
cubi are.not above taking on the role of a damsel in distress when
encountered within a dungeon.

A succubus's natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields,
are treated as chaotic-aligned and evil-aligned for the purpose of
overcoming damage reduction

Energy Drain (Su): A succubus drains energy from a mortal it
lures into.some act of passion, or by simply planting a kiss on
victim. If the target is not willing to be kissed, the succubus must
start.a grapple, which provokes an attack of opportunity. The suc
cubus's kiss or embrace bestows one negative level. The kiss also.

ever they can. If

    

  

to

  

gn

 

   

 

 

 

 

 
