  
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
 
    
    
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

affected creature must succeed on.a DC 19 Fortitude save or die Saves: Fort +9, Ref +10, Will +3

 

 

  

 

instantly, The save DC is Charisma-based. Abilities; Str 17, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10
A slain creature's essence is trapped within the devourer's ribs, Skills: Hide +9, Listen +6, Jump +21, Spot +6
and the tiny figure takes on that victim's fearures. The trapped Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes
essence cannot be raised or resurrected, but.a limited wish, miracle, Environment: Warm forests
or wish spell frees it, as does destroying the devourer, A devouret, Organization: Solitary. or pack (3-6.
can hold only one essence at atime | {Challenge Rating: 6
The trapped essence provides adevourerwith enough powerto| ‘Treasure: None
use five spell-like abilities for each Hit Die or level of the trapped} Alignment: Always neutral
creature. As this energy is expended, the twisted soul fades away Advancement: 9-12 HD (Medium); 13-24 HD (Large) 4

until it evaporates completely. The trapped essence gainsoneneg-. _|Level Adjustment: —
ative level for every five times the devourer uses one of its spell

like abilities. When the essence's number of negative leve This creature stands on two powerful hind legs. It.has.a.long tail, but

  

 

equals the creature's. total Hit Dice or level, the essence is no other limbs, and a gray, pebbly hide with daggerlike markings. Its
destroyed. If an essence is freed, the restored creature must suc- narrow head is equipped with a sucking mouth and a tubelike orifice in
ceed on a DC 19 Fortitude save for each negative level or lose that its forehead.

level permanent!

Spell-Like Abilities: At the start of any encounter, the trapped The swift predators known as digesters have a vicious acid attack
essence within a devourer is assumed to have 3d4+3 levels. \that.can reduce a human.toa pool of glop in seconds. Digesters
(enough fuel for thirty to seventy-five uses). Once per round,.a may lurk almost anywhere there is prey.to be found, from barren
devourer can use one of the following abilities: confusion (DC 17), deserts to steaming jungles.
control undead (DC 20), ghoul touch (DC 15), lesser planar ally, may of A digester stands about 5 feet tall and is 2 feet long from snout

 

  

enfeeblement (DC 14), spectral hand, suggestion (DC 16), true seeing to tail. Ir weighs about 350 pounds,
Caster level 18th. The save DCs are Charisma-based. .
Spell Deflection (Su): The trapped essence provides a meas) COMBAT

 

     

 

ture of magical protection. Ifany of the following spells are castat_ A digester is a hunting and eating machine. When it is not
the devourer and overcome its spell resistance, they affect the. hungry (which is rarely), it lies low and avoids most other.crea-
imprisoned essence instead: banishment, chaos hammer, confusion, tures. When hunting, it looks about for.a likely target, then
crushing despair, detect thoughts, dispel evil, dominate person, fear, charges forth and delivers a gout of acid. If the initial attack is
geas/quest, holy sword, hypnosis, imprisonment, magic jar, maze, sugges-. _ insufficient to kill the prey, the digester attacks with its hind feet
tion, trap the soul, or any form of charm or.compulsion.In many _until it can spray acid again

cases, this deflection effectively neutralizes the spell (charming a Acid Spray (Ex): A digester can spray acid in a 20-foot.cone,

 

   

trapped essence, for example, is useless). Some of thes dealing 448 points of damage to everything in the area. Once.a
banishment, for example) might eliminate the trapped e: digester uses this ability, it cant use it again until td¢ rounds later
depriving the devourer of its spell-like abilities until it can con The creature can also produce a concentrated stream. of acid that
sume another victim, deals 8d8 points of damage to a single target within s feet_In

either case, a DC 17 Reflex save halves the damage. The save DC is

Constitution-based.
__—————— —DIGESIER Skills: A digester's coloration gives ita +4 racial bonus on
Medium Magical Beast je checks. It also has.a+4 racial bonus on Jump checks.
Hit Dice: 8d10+24 (68 hp)
Initiative: +6
Speed: 60 ft. (12 squares,
Armor Class: 17 (+2 Dex, +5 natural), touch 12, flat-footed 15
Base Attack/Grapple: +8/+11
Attack: Claw +11 melee (1d8+4
Full Attack: Claw +11 melee (1d8+4)
Space/Reach: 5 ft,/5 ft
Special Attacks: Acid spray
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft,, immunity to
acid, low-light vision, scent

 

 
