 

Skills: A doppelganger has a +4 racial bonus on Bluff and Dis-
guise checks. *When using its change shape ability, a doppel-
ganger gets an additional +10 circumstance bonus on Disguise
checks. If it can read an.opponent's mind, it gets a further +4 cir-
cumstance bonus on Bluff and Disguise checks.

DOPPELGANGERS AS CHARACTERS

\Spies supreme, doppelgangers infiltrate enemy territory, imper-

[sonate leaders, and probe enemies’ minds for thoughts and plans. |
Doppelganger characters possess the following racial traits,

|= +2 Strength, +2, Dexterity, +2 Constitution, +2 Intelligence,
(+4 Wisdom, +2 Charisma,

—Medium size. ——

—A doppelganger's base land speed is 30 feet

—Darkvision: Doppelgangers can see in the dark up to 60 feet.

—Racial Hit Dice: A doppelganger begins with four levels of
ymonstrous humanoid, which provide 4d8 Hit Dice, a base attack

ibonus of +4, and base saving throw bonuses of Fort +1, Ref +4, and |

 

{Will +4,

—Racial Skills: A doppelganger’s monstrous humanoid levels
give it skill points equal to 7 x (2 + Int modifier). Its class skills |

are Bluff, Diplomacy, Disguise, Intimidate, Listen, Sense Motive,
and Spot.

—Racial Feats: A doppelganger’s monstrous humanoid levels
give it two feats.

— +4 natural armor bonus.

— +4 racial bonus on Bluff and Disguise checks. When using
lits change shape ability, a doppelganger gets an additional +10
\circumstance bonus on Disguise checks, If it.can read an oppo-
\nent’s mind, itgets a further +4 circumstance bonus on Bluff and

(Disguise checks.

—Special Attacks (see above): Detect thoughts,

—Special Qualities (see above): Change shape, immunity to
sleep and charm effects,

—Automatic Languages: Common, Bonus Languages: Auran,
Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Halfling, Giant, Terran.

—Favored Class: Rogue.

—Level adjustment +4.

 

True dragons are winged, reptilelike creatures of ancient lineage.

They are known and feared for their size, physical prowess, and
magical abilities, The oldest dragons are among the most powerful
creatures in the world,

The known varieties of true dragons (as opposed to other crea-
tures that have the dragon type) fall into two broad categories:
chromatic and metallic. The chromatic dragons are black, blue,

jgreen, red, and white; they are all evil and extremely fierce. The
[metallic dragons are brass, bronze, copper, gold, and silver; they
tare all good, usually noble, and highly respected by the wise.

All true dragons gain more abilities and greater power as they
age. (Other creatures that_have the dragon type do not.) They
range in length from several feet upon hatching to more than 100
feet after attaining the status of great wyrm. The size of a particu-
lar dragon varies according to age and variety.

Though they are fearsome predators, dragons scavenge when
necessary and can eat almost anything if they are hungry enough.
A dragon's metabolism operates like a highly efficient furnace and
,can metabolize even inorganic material. Some dragons have
ideveloped a taste for such fare,

Although goals and ideals vary among varieties, all dragons
jare covetous, They like to hoard wealth, collecting mounds of
jcoins.and gathering as many gems, jewels, and magic items as.

possible, Those with large hoards are loath to leave them for

long, venturing out of their lairs only to patrol the immediate!
area or to get food. For dragons, there is no such thing as,

Dracon AGE CATEGORIES

Category Age (Years)
1 Wyrmiling os
2__ Ver young. 6-15
3. Young 16-25
| 4 juvenile 26-50
$ Young adult 51-100
6 Adult 101-200
7 Mature adult 201-400
8 Old 401-600
9 Very old 601-800
10 Ancient 801-1,000
n Wyrm 1,001-1,200

12 Great wyrm 1,20) or more
enough treasure. Ir's pleasing to look at, and they bask in its
jradiance. Dragons like to make beds of their hoards, shaping
nooks and mounds to fit their bodies, By the time a dragon.
imatures to the age of great wyrm, hundreds of gems and coins
{may be imbedded in its hide

All dragons speak Draconic,

COMBAT
A dragon attacks with its powerful claws and bite, and can.also use
a breath weapon and special physical attacks, depending on its
size. It prefers to fight on the wing, staying our of reach until it has.
worn down the enemy with ranged attacks, Older, more intelli-|
gent dragons are adept at sizing up the opposition and eliminating |
the most dangerous foes first (or avoiding them. while picking off |
weaker enemies) ;

The accompanying table provides space and reach statistics for |
dragons of various sizes, plus the natural weapons a dragon of a
certain size can employ and the damage those attacks deal,

Bite: Bite attacks deal the indicated damage plus the dragon's
Strength bonus. A dragon also can use its bite to snatch opponents
if it has the Snatch feat (see page 304),

Claw: Claw attacks deal the indicated damage plus 1/2 the
dragon's Strength bonus (round down), The dragon also can use its
claws to snatch opponents if it has the Snatch feat (see page 304).
Claw attacks are secondary attacks, requiring a -5 penalrty on the
attack roll, (Many dragons choose the Multiattack feat to lessen
this penalty to —2)

Wing: The dragon can slam opponents with its wings, even
when flying. Wing attacks deal the indicated damage plus 1/2 the
dragon's Strength bonus (round down) and are treated as second-
ary attacks,

Tail Slap; The dragon can slap one opponent each round with
its tail, A tail slap deals the indicated damage plus 1-1/2 times the
dragon's Strength bonus (round down) and is treated as a second-
ary attack.

Crush (Ex); This special attack allows a flying or jumping
dragon of at least Huge size to land on opponents as a standard
action, using its whole body to.crush them. Crush attacks are
effective only against opponents three or more size categories
smaller than the dragon (though itcan attempt normal oyerrun or
grapple attacks against larger opponents)

A crush attack affects as many creatures as can fit. under the
dragon's body. Creatures in the affected area must succeed on a
Reflex save (DC equal.to that of the dragon's breath weapon) or be |
pinned, automatically taking bludgeoning damage during the next
round unless the dragon moves off them. If the dragon chooses to.
maintain the pin, treat it.as. a normal grapple attack. Pinned oppo-|
nents take damage from the crush each round if they don't escape. |

Accrush attack deals the indicated damage plus 1-1/2 times the
dragon's Strength bonus (round down).

Tail Sweep (Ex); This special attack allows a dragon of at least
Gargantuan size to sweep with its tail as a standard action. The
