DRAGON SPACE/REACH, ATTACKS, AND DAMAGE

Size Space/Reach® 1 Bite
Tiny 2-1/2 ft.0 ft, (5 ft. with bite) id4
Small 5 ft/5 ft. 1d6
Medium 5 ft/5 ft, 168
Large 10 ft,/5 ft, (10 ft, with bite) 246
Huge 15 ft./10 ft. (15 ft. with bite) 208
Gargantuan 20 ft./15 ft._(20 ft. with bite) 4d6
Colossal 30 ft./20 ft. (30 ft. with bite) 48

Tail 1 Tail
2Claws 2 Wings Slap. 1. Crush Sweep
1d3 — = = —
1d4 = - — _
16 1¢4 = - =
148 1d6 18, ~ ~
26 148 2d6 248 =
248 2d6 248 406 2d6
448 248 446 448 208

“A dragon's bite attack has reach as if the creature were one size category larger. All other attacks are made with the standard reach for the.

dragon's size.

sweep affects a half-circle with a radius of 30 feet (or
40 feet for a Colossal dragon), extending from an
intersection on the edge of the drag-
on's. space in any direction. Crea-
tures within the swept area are
affected if they are four or more size
categories smaller than the dragon.
A tail sweep automatically deals the
indicated damage plus 1-1/2 times the
dragon's Strength bonus (round down)
Affected creatures can attempt Reflex
saves to take half damage (DC equal to thar
of the dragons breath weapon).

Grappling: Dragons do not favor grap
{ple attacks, though their crush attack (and
Snatch feat, if they know it) use normal
sgrapple rules.

A dragon can always use its breath “@&
‘weapon while grappling, as well as its spells_— *X
and spell-like or supernatural abilities, pro-
vided it succeeds on Concentration checks,

Breath Weapon (Su): Using a breath weapon is.a
standard action. Once a dragon breathes, it can't
breathe again until 1d¢ rounds later. Ifa dragon has

more than one type of breath weapon, it still can breathe only,

once every 1d4 rounds. A blast from a breath weapon always starts.
at any intersection adjacent to the dragon and extends in a direc-
tion of the dragon's choice, with an area as noted on the table.
below. If the breath weapon deals damage, creatures caught in the
area can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage; the DC depends
on the dragon's age and variety, and is given in each individual
entry, Saves against nondamaging breath weapons'use the same
DC; the kind of saving throw is noted in the variety descriptions.
The save DC against a breath weapon is 10 + 1/2 dragon's HD +
dragons Con modifier.
Breath weapons come in two basic shapes, line and cone, whose
lareas vary with the dragon's size.

Dracon BreatH WEAPONS

Dragon Size Line® (Length), Cone** (Length)
Tiny 30ft. 1S ft.
Small 40 ft. 20 ft
Medium 60 ft. 30 ft.
Large 80 ft. 40 ft.
Huge 100 f 50 ft.
Gargantuan 120 ft, 60 ft.
Colossal 140 ft. 70 ft.

*A line is.always.5 feet high and 5 feet wide.
Ls*A cone is as high and wide.as its length.

Erightful Presence (Ex): A young adult or older dragon.can
unsettle foes with its mere presence, The ability takes effect
automatically whenever the dragon attacks, charges, or flies
overhead. Creatures within a radius of 30 feet x the dragon's age

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 

category are subject to the effect if they have,
fewer HD than the dragon.

A potentially affected creature that succeeds.on a
Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 dragon's HD + dragon's Cha modifier)
remains immune to that dragon’ frightful presence
for 24 hours. On a failure, creatures with 4.or
less HD become panicked for 4d6 rounds
\and those with 5 or more HD become

Spells: A dragon knows and casts
arcane spells as.a sorcerer.of the level
indicated in its variety description, gain-
ing bonus spells fora high Charisma
score. Some dragons can also cast spells.
from the cleric list or cleric domain lists.as.
arcane spells.
Spell-Like Abilities: A dragon's spell-,
like abilities depend on its age and variety.
It gains the abilities indicated for its age plus all.
previous ones. Its age category or its sorcerer caster level,
whichever is higher, is the caster level for these abilities The save
DC is 10 + dragon's Cha modifier + spell level. All spell-like abili-
ties are usable once per day unless otherwise noted.

Damage Reduction: Young adult and older dragons have
damage reduction. Their natural weapons are treated as magic
weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.

Immunities (Ex): All dragons have immunity to sleep and
paralysis effects. Each variety of dragon has immunity to one or
two_additional forms of attack no.matter what its age, as given in
its description.

Spell Resistance (Ex): As dragons age, they become more
resistant .to spells and spell-like abilities, as indicated in the vari-
ety descriptions.

Blindsense (Ex): Dragons can pinpoint creatures within a dis-
tance of 60 feet. Opponents the dragon cantt actually see still have
total concealment against the dragon.

Keen Senses (Ex): A dragon sees four times as well a human in
shadowy illumination and twice.as well in normal light. Ir also has
darkvision outto 120 feet.

Skills: All dragons have skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier,
minimum 1) x (Hit Dice +3). Most dragons purchase the following
skills at the maximum ranks possible: Listen, Search, and Spot. The
remaining skill points are generally spent on Concentration,.
Diplomacy, Escape Artist, Intimidate, Knowledge (any), Sense,
Motive, and Use Magic Device at a cost of 1 skill point per rank All)
these skills are considered class skills for dragons. (Each dragon has;
other class skills as well, as noted in the variety descriptions.)

Feats: All dragons have one feat, plus an additional feat per 3}
Hit Dice, just like any. other creature. Dragons favor Alertness,

 

\Blind-Fight, Cleave, Flyby Attack, Hover, Improved Initiative,

Improved Sunder, Power Attack, Snatch, Weapon Focus (claw or

bite), Wingover, and any metamagic feat that is available and

useful to. sorcerers.

 
