vision 60 ft,, immunity to electricity and petrification, low-
light vision, protective aura, resistance te cold 10 and fire 10
spell resistance 28, tongues

Saves: Fort +9, Ref +8, Will +10

Abilities: Str 25, Dex 12, Con 15, Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 16 4

Skills: Concentration.+15, Diplomacy +5, Escape Artist +14,
Handle Animal +16, Hide +14, Knowledge (any two) +16, 4
Listen +16, Move Silently +14, Ride +16, Sense Motive +16,
Spot +16, Use Rope +1 (+3 with bindings) 4

_Eeats: Combat Expertise, Improved Disarm, Improved Initiative, |
Improved Trip

(Environment: Olympian Glades of Arborea

Organization: Solitary, pair, or squad (3-5)

Challenge Rating: 13

Treasure: No coins, double goods; standard items

Alignment: Always chaotic good

Advancement: 11-15. HD (Medium); 16-30 HD (Large)

Level Adjustment: — 4

LThis creature resembles an elf with a noble bearing. It has pearly, opales- ,

cent eyes and seems to give off a radiant aura.

Ghaeles are the knights-errant of the celestials. Wherever evil and
tyranny raise their ugly heads, the ghaeles respond. Working
behind the scenes more than other eladrins, ghaeles quietly
muster resistance and offer guidance to any. of good heart with the
Icourage to stand against their oppressors.

A ghaele can take the form of an incorporeal globe of eldritch
\colors, 5 feet in diameter.

A ghaele is about ¢ feet tall and weighs about 170 pounds.

Ghaeles speak Celestial, Infernal, and Draconic, but can com.
\municate with almost any creature, thanks.to their tongues ability.

Combat
Ghaeles who enter combat prefer direct confrontation and damag-
ing attacks to more subtle or insidious methods, They usually fight
in their humanoid form, wielding incandescent +4 holy.
greatswords, If a ghaele desires mobility, it assumes its globe form,
and blasts the enemy with light rays.

A ghaele’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields, are |
treated as chaotic-aligned and good-aligned for the purpose of |
overcoming damage reduction,

Spell-Like Abilities: At will—aid, charm monster (DC 17), color
spray (DC_14), comprehend languages, continual flame, cure light wounds
(DC 14), dancing lights, detect evil, detect thoughts (DC 15), disguise self,
dispel magic, hold monster (DC 18), greater invisibility (self only), major
image (DC_16), see invisibility, greater teleport (self plus 50 pounds of
objects only); 1/day—chain lightning (DC 19), prismatic spray (DC 20),

Lutall of force, Caster level 12th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.

Spells: Ghaeles in humanoid form can cast divine spells as
i14thclevel clerics. A ghaele has access.to two of the following do-
mains: Air, Animal, Chaos, Good, or Plant (plus any others from its
deity). The save DCs are Wisdom-based.

Typical Cleri¢ Spells Prepared (6/7/7/6/5/4/4/3; save DC 13 + spell
level): O—cune_ minor wounds, detect magic, guidance, light, resistance,
virtue; 1st—bless, calm animals®, command, divine favor, obscuring
mist, sanctuary, shield of faith; 2nd—aid, align weapon, bear's
endurance, hold animal®, lesser restoration, remove paralysis, zone of
truth; 3rd—daylight, gaseous form®, prayer remove curse, searing light,

_water breathing; 4th—death ward, dismissal, divine power, restoration,
(summon nature’ ally LV (animal)*; Sth—control winds", flame strike,
(ntise dead, true seeing: 6th—bhanishment, blade barrier, chain lightning”,
heal; 2th—animal shapes®, holy word, summon monster VIL.

“Domain, spell. Domains: Air and Animal.

Gaze(Su); In humanoid form—slay evil creatures of 5 or less
HD, range 60 feet, Will DC 18 negates. Even if the save succeeds, |
the creature is affected as though by a fear spell for 2d10 rounds, ;

Nonevil creatures, and evil creatures with more than 5 HD, must
succeed ona DC 18 Will save or suffer the fear effect. The save DCs}
are Charisma-based.

Light Ray (Ex): A ghaele in globe form can project light mays!
Lwith a range of 300 feet. This attack overcomes damage reduction
Jof any type.

,. Alternate Form (Su): A ghaele can shift between its humanoid
and globe forms as.a standard action. In humanoid form, it cannot
fly or use its light rays, bur it can use its gaze attack and spell-like |

abilities, make physical attacks, and cast spells, In globe form, it,
can fly, use its light rays, and use spell-like abilities, but it cannot }
cast spells or use its gaze attack. The globe form is incorporeal, and
the ghaele has no Strength score while in that form.

A ghaele remains in one form until it chooses to assume anew.
one. A change in form cannot be dispelled, nor does the ghaele
revert to any particular form when killed. A true seeing spell. or abil-

Lity, however, reveals both forms simultaneously.

Protective Aura (Su): Against attacks made or effects cre-
\ated by evil creatures, this ability provides a +4 deflection bonus,
{to AC and a +4 resistance bonus.on saving throws to anyone

within 20 feet of the ghaele, Otherwise, it functions as a magic
circle against evil effect and a lesser globe of invulnerability, both |
with a radius of 20 feet (caster level equals ghaele's HD). (The
defensive benefits from the circle are not included ina ghaele's
statistics block.)

Elementals are incarnations of the elements that. compose existence. |
They are as wild and dangerous as the forces that birthed them.|

COMBAT
Elementals have varied combat abilities and tactics, but all have
the same elemental qualities.

AIR ELEMENTAL
This creature oppears to be an amorphous, shifting cloud surrounded by
fast-moving currents of air. Darker bits of twirling vapor form the sugges-
tion of two eyes and a mouth, but this could be a trick of the swirling air.

Air elementals are among the swiftest and most agile creatures in
existence. They seldom leave their home plane except when sum-
moned elsewhere by.a spell.

Air elementals speak Auran, though they rarely choose to do so.
The voice of an air elemental sounds like the high-pitched screech
of a tornado or the low moan of a midnight storm.

Combat
Their rapid speed makes air elementals useful on vast battlefields
or in extended aerial combat,

Air Mastery (Ex); Airborne creatures take a —1 penalty on
attack and damage rolls against an air elemental.

Whirlwind (Su); The elemental can transform itself into a
whirlwind once every 10. minutes and remain in that form for up
to... round for every 2 HD it has. In this form, the elemental can
move through the air or along a surface at its fly speed.

The whirlwind is $ feet wide at the base, up to 30 feet wide at
the top, and up to 50 feet tall, depending on the elemental’s size. .
The elemental controls the exact height, but it must_be atleast,
10 feet.

The elementals movement while in whirlwind form does not
provoke attacks of opportunity, even if the elemental enters the}

,space another creature occupies, Another creature might be!
caughtin the whirlwind if itrouches or enters the whirlwind, or if
ithe elemental moves into or through the creature's space.
|__Creatures one or more size categories smaller than the elemen-
tal might take damage when caught in the whirlwind (see the

 
