      
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
    
    
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
      

Air ELEMENTAL Sizes

 

 

EARTH ELEMENTAL

Like a.waiking hill, the creature plods nearer on two featureless legs of rock
and earth, its clublike arms _of jagged stone swinging at its sides, and its
{featureless head staring blankly in your direction.

Earth elementals are immensely strong and tough.
The largeronescan pound almost anything into ¥
yrubble. They seldom leave their home plane |p»
\except when summoned elsewhere by a spell
| When summoned to the Material Plane, an
earth elemental consists of whatever types of
dirt, stones, precious metals, and gems it was
conjured from,

Earth elementals speak Terran but
rarely choose to do so. An earth elemen-
tal’ voice sounds like an echo in adeep

itunnel, the rumbling of an earthquake,
\or.the grinding of plates of stone,

Combat

[Though an earth elemental moves
\slowly, it is a relentless oppo-
jnent, It can travel though
solid ground or stone as
easily as humans walk on
the earth's surface, It cannot
swim, however, and must
either walk around a body
of water or go through
the ground under it,
An earth elemental can
move along the bottom of
a body of water bur pre-
fers not to.

Earth Mastery (Ex): An earth
elemental gains a +1 bonus on attack
and damage rolls if both it and its foe are touching the ground. If
an opponent is airborne or waterborne, the elemental takes a—+

jpenalty on attack and damage rolls, (These modifiers are not
jincluded in the statistics block.

Push (Ex): An earth elemental can start a bull rush maneuver
withour provoking an attack of opportunity. The combat modi-
fiers given in Earth Mastery, above, also apply to the elemental’s
opposed Strength checks,

Earth Glide (Ex); Anearth elemental can glide through
stone, dirt, or almost any other sort of earth except metal as
easily as a fish swims through water. Its burrowing leaves behind
no tunnel or hole, nor does it create any_ripple or other signs of
its presence. A move earth spell cast. on.an area containing a bur-

.rowing earth elemental flings the elemental back 30 feet, stun-

EarTH ELEMENTAL Sizes

4 Elemental__Height Weight _ Elemental __ Height __ Weight

| Small 4h 80 Ib. Huge 32 ft. 48,000 Ib,
Medium. $f 750 tb. Greater 36 ft. 54,000 Ib.
Large 16 ft. 6,000 lb. Elder 40 ft. 60,000 Ib.

Whirhwind

Elemental Height Weight Save DC Pause Height

Small 4h 1b. n 10-20 ft.

Medium 8 ft. 2 Ib 1 is 10-30 ft, ,

Large 16 4 Ib. 16 2d6 10-40 ft, ,

Huge 32 ft. & lb. 22 248 10-50 ft.)
| Greater 36ft. 10d. 25 248 10-60 ft.

Elder 40 ft. 12 1b. 28 248 10-60 ft.

  

ning the creature for 1 round unless it succeeds on a DC 15 For-,
titude save.

FIRE ELEMENTAL

_Amass of ambulatory flame races across the ground, seeming to flicker.and.

spark from a central, humanoid-shaped conflagration, Like a living
Linferno, the fire-creature’s. burning dance of heat and flame brings it ever
closer.

.Fire elementals are fastand agile. The merest.touch from their,
fiery bodies is sufficient to set many materials aflame.

A fire elemental cannot enter water or any other nonflammable
liquid. A body of water is an impassible barrier unless the fire ele-
mental.can step or jump over it.

Fire elementals speak Ignan, though they rarely. choose to do so.
a. When one speaks, its voice sounds like the crackle and hiss,
X. of a great fire.

    
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

Combat
A fire elemental is a fierce opponent |
- that attacks its enemies
directly and savagely, Intakes
joy.in burning the creatures and
objects of the Material Plane. to.
ashes.

Burn (Ex); A fire elemental’s
slam attack deals bludgeoning)
damage plus fire damage from the)
elemental’s flaming body. Those hit,
by a fire elemental's slam attack also.

must succeed ona Reflex save)
Sa or catch on fire. The flame}
burns for 1d¢ rounds, The,
BW save DC varies with the ele-
ne mental's. size. (see the
“4 table below). A burning
creature can.take a move
action to pur out the
flame. The save DC is Con-
stitution-based
. Creatures hitting 2 fire ele-
mental with natural weapons or unarmed attacks take
fire damage as though hit by the elementals attack, and
also.catch on fire unless they succeed on a Reflex save.

—_

   
 

Fire ELEMENTAL Sizes

Elemental Height Weight Burn Save DC
Small 4h Vib. W
Medium 8 ft. 2 |b. 14
Large 16 ft. 4b. v7
Huge 32.ft, 8b. 22
Greater 36 ft. 10 Ib. 24
Elder 40 ft. 1b. 26

WATER ELEMENTAL

A vortex of water rolls across the ground, though it never seems to crash or

lose its shape. The waves cascade and storm around a central, humanoid-_
shaped whirlpool, with watery appendages that pound with the force of an.
ocean storm, |

,A water elemental can be as ferocious and powerful as.a stormy.sea.
A water elemental can't venture more than 180 feet from the/
body of water from which it was conjured,
Water elementals speak Aquan bur rarely choose to do so,
{When one speaks, its voice sounds like the crashing of waves ona
\rocky shore or the howls of an ocean gale.

 
