42 racial bonus on saving throws against enchantment spells or
effects,

—Low-light vision.

— +1 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. A half-elf
does not have the elf's ability to notice secret doors simply by pass-
ing near them.

— +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy and Gather Information
checks: Half-elves get along naturally with all people. This bonus.
may not apply in situations or settings where half-elves are
viewed with distrust (such as isolated human settlements), atthe
DMs option

—Elyen Blood: For all effects related to race, a
half-elf is considered an elf. Half-elves, for
ample, are just as vulnerable to special
effects that affect elves as their elf ancestors
are, and they can ¥
use magic items that
are only usable by elves

—Auromatic Languages
Common, Elven. Bonus Lan
guages: Any (other than secret lan
guages, such as Druidic)

—Favored Class; Any, When
determining whether a multiclass
half-elf takes an experience point

enalty for multiclassing, her
highest-level class does not
count '

    

  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 

 

Aguatic Elf
This humanoid is slender and
slightly shorter than a human.
It.has pale, greenish silver skin
and emerald green hair, Its ears
are.pointed, and its fingers and
toes are. partially webbed

 

Also called sea elves,
these creatures are water-
breathing cousins to
land-dwelling elves
They cavort amid the
and the_ocean
depths with allies such as.
dolphins and whales.

Aquatic elves fight underwater
with rridents, spears, and nets.

Many aquatic elves revere Deep
Sashelas, an undersea god of knowl:
edge and beauty.

Aquatic Elf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the high
elf traits, except where.noted,

+2 Dexterity, —2 Intelligence. These adjustments replace the
high elf’s ability score adjustments

—An aquatic elf has the aquatic subtype.

—An aquatic elf has. a swim speed of 40 feet

—Gills: Aquatic elves.can survive out of the water for 1 hour
per point of Constitution (after that, refer to the suffocation rules
on page 304 of the Dungeon Master's Guide)

—Superior Low-Light Vision: Aquatic elves can see four times
as far.as.a human in starlight, moonlight, rorchlight, and similar
conditions of low illumination. This trait replaces the high elf's
Jow-light vision.

—Favored Class; Fighter. This trait replaces the high elf’s
favored class.

waves

 

 

Drow
This humanoid is slender and shorter than a human, it has jet black skin
and white hair.

 

Also known as dark elves, drow are a depraved and evil subter
ranean offshoot

White is the most. common hair color among drow, but almost
any pale shade is possible, Drow tend to be smaller and thinner
than other sorts of elves, and their eyes are often a vivid red. Their
society is matriarchal and rigidly controlled by the priesthood.

The drow’s patron deity is the spider goddess Lolth. Female

drow favor the cleric class rather than
wizard and have access to two of
. the following domains; Chaos,
’ Destruction, Evil, or Trickery,
’ Drow usually coat their arrows
with a potent venom.

Poison (Ex): An opponent
hit by a drow’s poisoned
weapon must succeed on a
DC 13 Fortitude save or fall
unconscious. After 1 minute,

the subject. must succeed on
another DC 13 Fortitude save
or remain unconscious for 2d4
hours. A typical drow carries
id4—1 doses of drow knock-
out poison. Drow typically
coat arrows and crossbow
bolts with this poison, bur it
can also be applied to a melee
weapon. Note that drow have
no special ability_to apply.
poison without risking being
poisoned themselves, Since this
poison is not.a magical effect.
drow and other elves are s
ceptible to it.
Drow Traits (Ex): These
traits are in addition to
the high elf traits, except
where noted.
— +2 Intelligence, +2

Charisma.

Darkvision out to 120
feet, This trait replaces the high
elf’s low-light vision.

—Spell resistance equal to 11+ class levels.

+2 racial bonus on Will saves against spells and spell-like
abilities.

-Spell-Like Abilities: Drow.can.use.the following spell-like abili
ties once per day: dancing lights, darkness, faerie fire. Caster level equals
the drow’s class levels.

—Weapon Proficiency: A drow is automatically proficient with
the hand crossbow, the rapier, and the short sword, This trait
replaces the high elf's weapon proficiency

—Automatic Languages: Common, Elven, Undercommon.
Bonus Languages: Abyssal, Aquan, Draconic, Drow Sign Language,
Gnome, Goblin, Kuo-toan. This trait replaces the high elf's auto-
matic.and bonus languages

Light Blindness: Abrupt exposure to bright light (such as
sunlight ora daylight spell) blinds drow for 1 round. On subse-
quent rounds, they are dazzled as long as.they remain in the
affected area

—Favored Class: Wizard (male) or cleric (female), This trait
replaces the high elf’s favored class.

Level adjustment +2

 

 

 

s-

 

 

 
