Ethereal filchers dwell on.the Material Plane, where they stuff
their lairs with all manner of refuse. They prefer secluded, inac
cessible spots, such as the bottom of an abandoned welll or mine
shaft, an alpine cave, or the basement of a ruined building

Ethereal filchers do not speak

COMBAT

‘Ancthereal filcher prowls about, using its ethereal jaunt ability.to

move about unseen (and often through solid objects). Upon locat

ing.a likely mark, it shifts to the Material Plane, attempting to

catch its victim unaw The creature attempts to seize an item,

then retreats quickly back to the Ethereal Plane. It is not above

delivering a bite to distract its target. Once it'secures a trinker, it

scurries back to its lair to. admire its prize. When badly wounded
cher escapes rather than continuing the fight.

Any number of simple ruses can blunt a filcher's attack.
Quick-thinking individuals often can recover a stolen it
simply by snatching it back before the filcher can escape. (Use
the rules for making a disarm attempt, page 155 of the Player's
Handbook.) Others keep a few.cheap baubles available for the
local filcher to.snatch. Filchers are known to have a nose for
spelled with Nystul’s magic aura or continual

   

 

 

     

  

  

m.

 

 

 

  

magic, so items e
flame spells oft
gaudy. Fortunate
with a single prize

Detect Magic (Su): Ethereal filchers can detect magic as
spell (caster level Sth) at will

Ethereal Jaunt (Su): An ethereal filcher can shift from the
Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane.as part of any move action,
and shift back again as a free action. It can remain.on the Ethe
real Plane for 1 round before returning tothe Material Plane. The
ability is otherwise identical with the ethereal jaunt spell (caster
level 15th.

Skills: Ethereal filchers have a +8 racial bonus on Sleight of
Hand checks, and a +4 racial bonus on
Listen and Spot checks.

n prove irresistible, especially if they are also

 

y for its target, a filcher usually is satisfied

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Ethereal marauder

Medium Magical Beast (Extraplanar)
Hit Dice: 2d10 (11 hp)
Initiative: +5
Speed: 40 ft. (8 square:
Armor Class: 14 (+1 Dex, +3 natural), touch 11, fla
Base Attack/Grapple; +2/+4

Attack: Bite +4 melee (1d6+3

Full Attack: Bite +4 melee (1d6+3.

Space/Reach: 5 {t,/s ft

Special Attacks: —

Special Qualities; Darkvision 60 ft., ethereal jaunt
Saves; Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +1

Abilities: Str 14, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 10
ills: Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Spot +4

Feats: Improved
Environment: Ethereal Plane

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Rating: 3

Treasure: None

Alignment: Always neutral

Advancement: 3+ HD (Medium); $6 HD (Large.
Level Adjustment:

 

ted 13

  

   

 

 

 

nitiative

This creature resembles.a bipedal lizard witha sinuous tail. [tsmost
disturbing feature is its lack of a head. Instead it-has a gaping maw
surrounded by three powerful mandibles; gleaming, jet-black teeth line.
the inner mouth, Three small eyes ring the maw, interspersed with the.
dibles,

 

 

 

Ethereal marauders are.aggressive predators that.can move
quickly from the Ethereal Plane to attack opponents on the Mate-
rial Plane.

Ethereal marauders live and hunt on the Ethereal Plane. Their
ecology and habits are obscure at best—few have observed them
in their natural habitat for any length of time, and their appear
ances on the Material Plane are limited to. those occasions when
they are attacking prey. They are assumed to have no society or cut
ture in the tradirional sense, being motivated solely by the need
for sustenance and survival,

Ethereal marauders’ coloration ranges from bright blue to deep
violet, An.ethereal marauder stands about 4 feet tall, but its overall
length is about 7 feet. It weighs about 200 pounds.

Ethereal marauders speak

known langua ors of th
attacks on the Material Plane cl:
that they emit an eerie, high whine that
varies in pitch depending on the creature's

and health
COMBAT

Once.a marauder locates prey, it shifts to the
Marerial Plane .to.attack, attempting to catch its
victim flat-footed, The creature bites its victim
then retreats quickly back to the Ethereal Plane. When
badly hurt or wounded, a marauder escapes to its home.
plane rath
Ethereal Jaunt (Su): An ethereal marauder can shift
from the Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane asa free.

 

     

 

 

    
    
     
 
 

er than continuing the fight

    
  

action, and s

spell (caster level 1sth,

=> Skills: Ethereal marauders have a +2
racial bonus on Listen, Move Silently, and

Spot checks.

ift back again as a move action. The}
ability is otherwise identical with the ethereal jaunt)

aan

s
i

 
