—__GITHZERAI

Githzerai, 1st-Level Warrior

Medium Humanoid (Extraplanar)

Hit Dice: 1d8+1 (5 hp)

Initiative: +3

Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares

Armor Class: 17 (+3 Dex, +4 inertial armor), touch 13, flat-footed 14

Base Attack/Grapple: +1,

Attack: Masterwork short sword +5 melee (1d6+1/19-20) or
composite longbow (+1 Str bonus) +4 ranged (1d8+1/x3,

Full Attack: Masterwork short sword +5 melee (1d6+1/19-20)
or. composite longbow. (+1 Str bonus) +4 ranged (1d8+1/x3)

Space/Reach: 5 ft,/5 ft

Special Attacks; —

Special Qualities: Darkvision
resistance 6

Saves: Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +0

Abilities; Str 13, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 11, Cha 8

Skills; Concentration +1, Spot +2

Feats: Weapon Finesse

Environment: Ever-Changing Chaos of Limbo

Organization: Fellowship (3-12 3rd-level students), sect (12-24
3rd-level students, plus 2 7th-level teachers and 1 9th-level
mentor), or order (30-100 3rd-level students, plus 1 7th-level
teacher per 10 adults, 5 9th-level mentors, 2 13th-level masters,
and 1 16th-level sensei

Challenge Rating: 1

1 : Standard

: Any neutral

Advancement: By character class

Level Adjustment: +2

 

 

 

0 ft, psionics, inertial armor, spell

 

 

    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

 
 

 

 

This. creature is a thin
and_tall_ humanoid
with sharp features,
@ somber face,
and yellow
eves

 

Githzerai

Githzerai are a.hard-hearted, humanlike people who dwell on
the plane of Limbo, secure in the protection of their hidden
monasteries,

Githzerai average more than 6 feet tall and weigh about 160
pounds. Some have gray eyes instead of yellow, All of them dress
in drab, unadorned clothing

As a rule, githzerai are close-mouth
and trust few outside their own kind.

They speak their own language (similar enough to the tongue of
the githyanki that either could understand the other if they chose.
to speak instead of fight), but many also speak Common.

The statistics block describes a 1st-level warrior, Many gith
zerai are monks; however, sorcerers, rogues, and multic
githzerai (called zerths) are also indispensable members of a
monastery.

COMBAT
Able to fight without weapons and armor, githzerai monks yearn
‘to bring the “good fight” to their enemies, the githyanki and the
mind flayers. In melee, githzerai sorcerers often use their powers
to enhance the monks, warriors, and rogues,

Psionics (Sp); 3/day-—daze (DC 9), feather fall, shatter (DC 11). A
githzerai of 11th level or higher. can use plane shift (DC 16) once
per day. Effective caster level equals the githzerai’s class levels, The
save DCs are Charisma-based.

Inertial Armor (Sp); Githzerai can use psychic force to block an
enemy's blows. This ability gives them a+4.armor bonus to AC as
long as they remain conscious. This is the equivalent of a 1st
level spell

Spell Resistance (Ex); A githzerai has sp
its class levels + 5,

cd, keep their own counsel,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I resistance equal to

The githzerai warrior presented here had the following ability
scores before racial adjustments; Str 13, Dex
11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8.

Challenge Rating: Githzerai with levels in

NPC classes have a CR equal to their character level

Githzerai with levels in PC equal ro their

character level +1

GITHZERAL SOCIETY
The githzerai forerunners united under the command of the
rebel Gith (see the Githyanki entry, above) and threw down the

plane-spanning empire of the mind flayers. Once free, the
1

 

 

 

sses have aC

 

 

  

former slaves split ideologically and eventually raci
becoming the githzerai and their foes, the githyanki
githzerai’s history of imprisonment was the founda:
tion of their monastic lifestyle, in which all githz
erai learn from childhood how to eradicate
potential oppressors and enem ta
githzer,

Githzerai live within self-contained, fortresslike monasteries
hidden deep in the swirling chaos of Limbo, While disorder
rules outside, stability holds sway inside. Each monastery is
ultimarely under the control of a sensei, a monk of at least
16th level, and follows a strict schedule of chants, meals, martial
arts training, and devotions, according to a particular sensei’s

philosophy. A monastery contains noncombatants (mostly
children) equal to 15% of the fighting population.
Githzerai males and females may be found in almost.

any. role or class,
a special devotion, githzerai sometimes or
ganize mind flayer hunting parties called rrakkma. A rrakkma
consists of 4-5 githzerai of Sth level and 1-2 of 11th level, mainly
monks, but also containing at least one sorcerer and possibly a
rogue. A makkina.does not return.to its home monastery before

   

s (anyone

 

   

 

 

 

 

 
