 

Goblin bands and tribes have noncombatant young equal in”

number to the adults

‘The chief goblin deity is Maglubiyer, who urges his wor-
shipers to expand their numbers and overwhelm their.competi-
tors.

GOBLINS AS CHARACTERS

\Goblin leaders tend to be rogues or fighter/rogues. Goblin clerics|
\worship Maglubiyer. A goblin cleric has access to two of the fol-)

Jowing domains: Chaos, Evil, or Trickery, Most goblin spellcasters |

are adepts, Goblin adepts favor spells that fool or confuse enemies.

Goblin characters possess the following racial traits.

—=72 Strength, +2 Dexterity,—2 Charisma.

—Small size: +1 bonus to Armor Class, +1 bonus on attack rolls,
+4 bonus on Hide checks, -+ penalty on grapple checks, lifting
and carrying limits 3/4 those of Medium characters.

—A goblin’s base land speed is 30 feet.

—Darkvision out to 60 feet.

|—+4 mcial bonus on Move Silently and Ride checks.

—Automatic Languages: Common, Goblin. Bonus Languages:
Draconic, Elven, Giant, Gnoll, Ore.

—Favored Class: Rogue.

The goblin warrior presented here had the following ability scores
before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9,
Cha 8,

\Golems are magically created automatons of great power. Con-
\structing one involves the employment of mighty magic and ele-
\mental forces,

,.The animating force for a golem is a spirit from the Elemental
\Plane of Earth. The process of creating the golem binds the unwill-
ing spirit.to the artificial body and subjects it.to the will of the
golem’s creator.

COMBAT

Golems are tenacious in combat and prodigiously strong as.well.|
Being mindless, they do nothing without orders from their cre-|

ators, They follow instructions explicitly and are incapable of |

any strategy or tactics. They are emotionless in combat and
cannot be provoked,

A golem’ creator can command it if the golem is within 60 feet
and can see and hear its creator, If uncommanded, a golem usually
follows its Jastinstruction to the best ofits ability, though if attacked
it returns the attack. The creator can give the golem a simple com-

-mand to govern its actions in his or herabsence, such as “Remain in

jan area and attack all creatures thar enter” (or only a specific type of
\creature), “Ring a gong and attack,” or the like. The golem’s creator
can order the golem to. obey the commands of another person (who
might in turn place the golem under someone else's control, and so
on), but the golem’s creator.can always resume control over his cre-

ation by commanding the golem to obey him alone.

Since golems do not need to breathe and are immune to most
forms of energy, they.can press an_attack against an opponent
almost anywhere, from the bottom of the sea to the frigid top of
the tallest mountain.

Immunity to Magic (Ex); Golems have immunity to most

-magical and supernatural effects, except when otherwise noted.

GONSTRUCTION—
{The cost to create given for each golem includes the. cost.of the
{physical body and all the materials and spell components thatare.
consumed or become a permanent part of the golem. Creating a

golem is essentially similar to creating any sort of magic item (see)
page 282 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). However, a golem's body,

includes costly material components that may require some extra,
preparation. The golem’s creator can assemble the body or hire|
someone else to do the job. The builder must have the appropriate |
skill, which varies with the golem variety. }
Completing the golem’s creation drains the appropriate XP
ifrom the creator and requires casting any spells on the final day,
,The creator must cast the spells personally, but they can come
from outside sources, such as scrolls.

The characteristics.of a golem that come from its nature.as.a,
.magic item (caster level, prerequisite feats and spells, marker,
price, cost to create) are given in summary form atthe end of each
golem’s description, in the same format used in Chapter Z.of the

Dungeon Master's Guide.

Note: The market price of an advanced golem (a golem with.
more Hit Dice than the typical golem described in each entry) is
increased by 5,000 gp for each additional Hit Die, and increased by
an.additional $0,000 gp if the golem’s size increases. The XP cost

{for creating an advanced golem is equal to 1/25 the advanced
4golem’s marker price minus the cost of the special materials
irequired.

CLAY GOLEM

Large Construct

Hit Dice: 11410230 (90 hp).

Initiative: -1

Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares)

Armor Class: a (+1 size, -1 Dex, +14 natural), touch 8,
flat-foon

Ra acoeala +8/+19

Attack: Slam +14 melee (2d10+7 plus cursed wound)

Full Attack; 2 slams. +14 melee (2d10+7 plus cursed wound)

Space/Reach: 10 ft,/10 ft,

Special Attacks: Berserk, cursed wound

Special Qualities: Construct traits, damage reduction
10/adamantine and bludgeoning, darkvision 60 ft., haste,
immunity to magic, low-light vision

Saves: Fort +3, Ref +2, Will +3

Abilities: Str 25, Dex 9, Con —, Int—, Wis.11,.Cha 1

Skills: —

Feats: —

Environment: Any

Organization: Solitary or gang (2-4)

Challenge Rating: 10

Treasure: None

Alignment: Always neutral

Advancement: 12-18 HD (Large); 19-33 HD (Huge)

Level Adjustment: —

 

This automaton has been sculpted from soft clay. It's about 18 inches taller
than a normal human, and its features are grossly distorted from the
human norm. Its chest is overty large, with arms attached by thick knots of
muscle at the shoulder, hanging down to_its knees, and ending in short,
stubby fingers. It has.no neck, and the jarge head has broad, flat features.
Its legs are short and bowed, ending in wide, flat feet. It smells faintly of clay.

This golem has a humanoid body made from clay.
Aclay golem wears no clothing except for a metal or stiff leather
garment around its hips. |
A clay. golem golem cannot speak or make any vocal noise. Ir}
walks and moves.with a slow, clumsy gait. It weighs around 600,
pounds.

Combat. {
{Clay golems are frightening combatants, thanks to their immuni-
{ties and their haste ability.

Berserk (Ex): When a clay golem enters combat, there is a
cumulative 1% chance each round that its elemental spirit breaks
