   

    
    
  
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

tude save or take 2d4 points of Strength damage. The save DC is
Charisma-based,

Mimicry (Ex): A green hag can imitate the sounds of almost
any animal found near its Jair.

Skills: A green hag has.a+8 racial bonus on any Swim check to |
perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always
choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan-}

\gered. It can use the run.action while swimming, provided it,
swims ina straight line.

SEA HAG
Medium Monstrous Humanoid (Aquatic)
.Hit Dice: 3d8+6 (19 hp)
Initiative: +1
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), swim 40 ft.
Armor Class: 14 (+1 Dex, +3 natural), touch 11, flar-foored 13
,Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+7
Attack: Claw +7 melee (id4+4)
|Full Attack: 2 claws +7 melee (1d4+4)
\Space/Reach: 5 ft,/s ft
Special Attacks: Hortific appearance, evil eye
Special Qualities: Amphibious, spell resistance 14
Saves: Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +4
Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 14
Skills: Craft or Knowledge (any one) +3, Hide +4, Listen +6,
Spot +6, Swim +12
Feats: Alertness, Toughness
Environment: Temperate aquatic __
| Organization; Solitary or covey (3 hags of any kind plus 1-8
ogres and 1—+ evil giants)
Challenge Rating: 4
Treasure: Standard
JAlignment: Usually chaotic evil
Advancement: By character class
Level Adjustment; —

This creature looks like an old female human. Its flesh is sickly and yellow,
covered with warts and oozing sores, Its long, filthy hair resembles rotting .
seaweed, +
Perhaps the most wretched of hags, the sea hag is found in the,
water of seas or overgrown lakes,

A sea hag is about the same height and weight as a female
human,

Combat
Sea hags are not subtle and prefer a direct approach ro combat.
They usually remain in hiding until they can affect as many foes as
{possible with their horrific appearance,
Horrific Appearance (Su); The sight of a sea hag is so revolting
\thacanyone (other than.another hag) who sets eyes upon one
must succeed on a DC 13 Fortitude save or instantly be weakened,
taking 2d6 points of Strength damage. This damage cannot reduce
a victim’ Strength score below 0, but anyone reduced to Strength
0 is helpless, Creatures that are affected by_this power or that suc-
cessfully save against it cannot be affected again by the same hag’s
horrific appearance for 24 hours, The save DC is Charisma-based.
Evil Eye (Su): Three times per day. a.sea hag can.cast its dire
gaze upon any single creature within 30 feet, The target must suc-
,ceed on a DC 13 Will save or be dazed for three days, although
\remove curse or dispel evil can restore sanity sooner. In addition, an
jaffected creature must succeed ona DC 13 Fortitude save or die
jfrom fright. Creatures with immunity to fear effects are not
jaffected by the sea hag’s evil eye. The save DCs are Charisma-
based,

  

Amphibious (Ex): Although sea hags are aquatic, they can sur-
vive indefinitely on land. j

Skills; A sea hag has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to
perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always.
{choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan-
{gered. It can use the run action while swimming, provided it
yswims in a straight line.

HAG COVEY

From time to time, a trio of hags gathers as.a covey. Usually this.
foul triune includes one hag of each type, but this is not always the,
case.

Combat
Hags in.a.covey.rely on deception and their boosted magical abili-
ties in combat.

A covey of hags is 80% likely to be guarded by 1d8 ogres and 1d4
jevil giants who do their bidding. These minions are often dis-
\guised with a veil spell to appear less threatening and sent forth as.
ispies. Such minions often (60%) carry magic stones known as jag

eyes (see below)

Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day—animate dead, bestow curse (DC 17
control weather, dream, forcecage, mind blank, mimge arcana (DC 18),
polymorph, veil CDC 19), vision, Caster level oth, The save DCs are
based on a Charisma score of 16, To useone of these abilities
(which requires a full-round action), all three hags must be within.
10 feet of one another, and all must participate.

Once per month,a.covey thar does not have a hag eye can create)
one from a gem worth at least 20 gp (see below),

Hag Eye
A hag eye is a magic gem created by a covey. It appears.to be noth:
ing more than a semiprecious stone, but a gem of seeing or other
such effect reveals it as a disembodied eye, Often, a hag eye is worn
as a ring, brooch, or other adornment. Any of the three hags who
created the hag eye can see through it whenever they wish, so long
as it is on the same plane of existence as the hag.A hag eye has
hardness 5 and 10 hit points. Destroying a hag eye deals 1d10
points of damage to each member of the covey and causes the one
who sustained the greatest. damage to be blinded for 24 hours.

A celestial’s magical nature allows it to breed with virtually any
creature, The offspring of the resulting unions, half-celestials, are
glorious and wonderful beings.

‘To carry out their responsibilities, celestials sometimes spend
great amounts of time in mortal realms. Being devoted and kind,
they occasionally fall in love with mortals: humans, elves, uni-
corns, and similar creatures, The objects of celestial affection are
never evil and are always intelligent, They always return the love
of their immortal paramour and willingly conceive the child, usu-
ally caring for it since the celestial has other duties.

No matter the form, half-celestials are always comely and
delightful to.the senses, having golden skin, sparkling eyes,
angelic wings, or some other sign of their higher nature.

Though noble and compassionate, half-celestials are often dis-_
mayed at the evil among their kin and take a stern, sometimes
harsh, view of base instincts or malevolent actions. Never truly fit-
ting into any mortal society, half-celestials are usually loners and,
wanderers attempting to right wrongs wherever they can, }

SAMPLE HALF-CELESTIAL

This noble knight seems human, bus he has golden eyes, and a large pair
lof white-feathered wings spreads from his shoulders.

   
