 
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
 

Special Qualities: Damage reduction 5/magic, darkvision 60 ft.,
immunity to poison, resistance to acid 10, cold 10, electricity
10, and fire 10, spell resistance 17

Saves: Fort +7, Ref +5, Will +9

Abilities: Str 18, Dex 17,.Con 14, Int 12, Wis 18, Cha 12
Skills: Concentration +12, Diplomacy +6, Knowledge (arcana)
+6, Knowledge (religion) +6, Heal +9, Spellcraft +3, Spot +9

\Feats: Combat Casting, Extra Turning, Flyby Attack, Improved.

Initiative, Weapon Focus (morningstar)”
Enyironment: Temperate plains
Organization: Solitary
(Challenge Rating: 9
Treasure: Double standard

Alignment: Always evil (any)

Advancement: By character class

Level Adjustment: +4

,Half-fiend spellcasters such as the one described here are usually
found as the leaders of dark cults or evil temples.

Combat
Half-fiends attack with aggressiveness and battle lust, using their
ability to fly to best advantage by casting spells from the air. They
enjoy torturing any enemies unfortunate enough to fall into their
hands,

Smite Good (Su): Once per day this half-fiend can make a
\normal melee attack to deal 7 points of extra damage against a
good foe,

Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day—darkness, poison (DC 15); 1/day—
\desecrate, unholy blight (DC 15). Caster level 7th, The save DCs are

Charisma-based.

Typical Cleric Spells Prepared (6/6/5/4/3; save DC 14 + spell level):
O—<cure minor wounds, detect magic, guidance, light, read magic, resist-
ance; Ast—command, cure light wounds, divine favor, doom, protection
from good®, shield of faith; 2nd—bear's endurance, bull's strength, hold
person, sound burst, spiritual weapon"; 3rd—bestow. curse, cure serious
wounds, dispel magic, magic vestment®; 4th—cure critical wounds,
summon monster 1V, unholy blight”, +

*Domain spell. Deity: Erythnul, Domains: Evil (cast evil spells!
at +1 caster level) and War (Weapon Focus bonus feat). }

Possessions: +2 breastplate, +1 large steel shield, +1 morningstar, periapt
of Wisdom +2, potion of haste, (Different half-fiends may have differ-
ent possessions.)

CREATING A HALF-FIEND
“Half-fiend” is an inherited remplate that.can be added to any
living, corporeal creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or more

,and nongood alignment (referred to hereafter as the base crea-
{ture),

A half-fiend uses all the base creature's statistics and special abil-
Lities except as noted here.

Size and Type: The creature's type changes to outsider. Do not
recalculate Hit Dice, base attack bonus, or saves, Size is un-
changed. Half-fiends are normally native outsiders.

Speed: A half-fiend has bat wings, Unless the base crearure has
a better fly speed, the creature can fly at the base creature's base
land speed (average maneuverability).

Armor Class: Natural armor improves by +1 (this stacks with
any natural armor bonus the base creature has),

Attack: A half-fiend has nwo claw attacks and a bite attack, and
the claws are.the primary natural weapon. If the base creature can
juse weapons, the half-fiend retains this ability: A half-fiend fight-
ing.without weapons uses a claw when making an attack action,
{When it has.a. weapon, it usually uses the weapon instead,

Full Attack: A half-fiend fighting without weapons uses both

claws and its bite when making a full artack. If armed with a}

weapon, it usually uses the weapon as its primary attack and its,

 

   

    

  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
    
   
   
 

bite. as.a.natural secondary attack. If it has a hand free, it.uses a.
claw as an additional natural secondary attack.
Damage: Half-fiends have bite and claw attacks. If the base |
creature does nor have these attack forms, use the damage values
jin the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the base
{creature's damage values, whichever are greater.

Bite Claw
Size Damage Damage
Fine 1 =
Diminutive 1d2 1
Tiny 1d3 1d2
Small 1d4 1¢3
Medium 1d6 14
Large 168 146
Huge 2d6 148,
Gargantuan 36 26
Colossal 4d6 3d6

Special Attacks: A half-fiend retains all the special attacks of
jthe base creature and gains the following special attack

Smite Good (Su): Once per day the creature can make a normal!
melee attack to deal extra damage equal to its HD (maximum of
+20) against a good foe.

Spell-Like Abilities: A half-fiend with an Intelligence or Wis
dom score of 8 or higher has spell-like abilities depending on its
Hit Dice, as indicated on the table below. The abilities are cumula-
tive; a half-fiend with 4. HD can use darkmess.as well as desecrate.
Unless otherwise noted, an ability is usable.once per day. Caster |
level equals the creature's HD, and the save DC is Charisma-based,_

HD Abilities

12 Darkness 3/day

34 Desecrate

5-6 Unholy blight

7-8 Poison 3/day

s10 Comtagion
11-12 Blasphemy
13-14 Unholy aura 3/day, unhallow
15-16 Horrid wilting
78 Summon monster IX (fiends only)
19-20 Destruction.

Special Qualities: A half-fiend has all the special qualities of
the base creature, plus the following special qualities.

—Darkyision out 10.60 feet,

—Immunity to poison,

—Resistance to acid 10, cold 10, electricity 10, and fire 10.

—Damage reduction: 5/magic (if HD 11 or less) or 10/magic (if
HD 12 0r more),

—A half-fiend’s natural weapons are treated as magic weapons
for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.

—Spell resistance equal to crearure’s HD + 10 (maximum 35).

Abilities: Increase from the base creature as follows: Str +4,
Dex +4, Con +2, Int +4, Cha +2,

Skills; A half-fiend gains skill points as an outsider and has skill
points equal to (8 + Int modifier) x (HD + 3). Do not include Hit
Dice from class levels in this calculation—the half-fiend gains
outsider skill points only for its racial Hit Dice, and gains the
normal amount of skill points for its class levels. Treat skills from
the base creature's list as class skills, and other skills as cross-class. .

Challenge Rating: HD 4 or less, as base creature +1; HD 5 to
10, as base creature +2; HD 11 or more, as base creature +3.

Alignment; Always evil (any),

Level Adjustment; +4.

HALF-FIEND CHARACTERS
Humanoid half-fiends often have a character class, preferring
cleric, fighter, rogue, and sorcerer. Rogues and fighters frequently

take levels in the assassin and blackguard prestige classes, respec-

tively. Nonhumanoids are also. sometimes clerics or sorcerers.
