Environment: Windswept Depths of Pandemonium
Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or pack (6-10)
Challenge Rating: 3

Treasure: None

Alignment: Always chaotic evil

Advancement; 7-9 HD (Large); 11-18 HD (Huge!
Level Adjustment; +3 (cohort

 

This creature looks like some gount, bestial hound or feline, with a mane.
of bristling quills.

Howlers live on planes where chaos and evil hold sway; they orig
inate on the plane of Pandemonium. These beasts hunt in packs,
racing through caverns to wear down their prey and rend it to bits.
A howler is about 8 feet long and weighs about 2,000 pounds,
Although they are surprisingly intelligent, howlers do not
speak—they only howl. If there is a language within the howls, as

some have suggested, even spells cannot decipher it. Howlers,

understand Abyssal.

COMBAT
Howlers attack in groups, for they are cowardly and cruel. They
prefer to charge into combat, race out, and then charge in again

A howler’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields, are
treated as chaotic-aligned and evil-aligned for the purpose of over
coming damage reduction.

Quills (Ex): A howler’s neck bristles with long quills, While
biting, the creature thrashes about, striking with 1d¢ of
them. An opponent hit by a howler's quill attack must suc
ceed on a DC 16 Reflex save or have the quill break off
in his ot her flesh. Lodged quills impose.a—1 penalty |
‘on attacks, saves, and checks per quill. The save DC is /f
Dexterity-based,

Aquill can be removed safely with a DC 20
Heal check; otherwise, removing a quill
deals an extra 1d6 points of damage.

Howl (Ex): All beings other than Qa
outsiders that hear the creature's V
howling for an hour or longer are
subject to its effect, though it does
not help the howler_in combat
Anyone within hearing range_of a
howler for a full hour must succeed on a
DC 12 Will save or take 1 point of
Wisdom damage. The save DC is
Charisma-based. The save must
be repeated for each hour of
exposure. This is a sonic mind-
affecting effect

TRAINING A

HOWLER
Small and Medium infernal creatures such as quasits, abyssal orcs,
and even succubi sometimes use howlers as mounts or pack ani
mals, Larger and more powerful demons use them like hunting

 

Howler

dogs

Although intelligent, a howler requires training before it can
bear a rider in combat. To be trained, a howler must have a friendly
attitude toward the trainer (this can be achieved through a suc
cessful Diplomacy check). Training a friendly howler requires six
weeks of work and a DC 25 Handle Animal check. Riding a
howler requires an exotic saddle. A howler can fight while carry-
ing a cider, but the rider cannot also attack unless he or she suc-
ceeds ona Ride check.

Carrying Capacity: A light load for a howler is up 10.460
pounds; a medium load, 461-920 pounds; and a heavy load,
921—1,380 pounds. A howler can drag 6,900 pounds.

 

This beast resembles some great reptile with a veritable forest of heads on.
long, slender necks.

Hydras are reptilelike monsters with multiple heads; they can
quickly tear apart all but the most well-armored foes

A hydra is gray-brown to dark brown, with a light yellow or tan
underbelly. The eyes are amber and the teeth are yellow-white. Iris.
about 20 feet long and weighs about 4,000 pounds,

Hydras do not speak

COMBAT
Hydras can attack with all their heads at no penalty, even if they.
move or charge during the round.

A hydra can be killed either by severing all its heads or by slay-
ing its body. To sever a head, an opponent must make a successful
sunder attempt with a slashing weapon. (The player should
declare where the attack is aimed before making the attack roll.)
Making a sunder attempt provokes an attack of opportunity
unless the foe has the Improved Sunder feat. An opponent.can
strike ata hydras heads from any position in which he could strike
at the hydra itself, because the hydra’s head writhe and whip about
in combat, An opponent can ready an action to attempt to sunder
a hydra’s head when the creature bites at him.

Each ofa hydra’s heads has hit

points equal to.the creature's full
normal hit point
total, divided by.
its original number of
heads. For example, if a
five-headed hydra
has 52 hit points, 10.or
more points of
damage severs_a
head (52 + 5 =

10.4, rounded down to 10)
Losing a head deals
damage to the body
equal to half the
head's full normal hit
points. A narural
reflex seals the

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

neck shut to pre
vent further blood
loss. A bydra can no
longer attack with a
severed head but takes

no other penalties,
Each time a head is severed,
two._new heads spring from the
stump in 14 rounds A hydra can never have more than
twice its original number of heads at any one time, and any extra
heads it gains beyond its original number wither and die within a
day.To prevent a severed head from growing back into two heads,
at least 5 points of fire or acid damage must be dealt to the stump

 

 

0 ee
BEHIND THE CURTAIN: HYDRAS
Hydras are intended to be monsters that are difficult to defeat by

conventional means. Characters without the Improved Sunder feat will

 

find it difficult and dangerous to attack by lopping off the monster's
heads, and the hydra’s fast healing ability means that damage directed
at its body is quickly restored. The hydra rewards characters who have
the Improved Sunder feat and parties who learn to coordinate their
attacks effectively.

 

 
