pain

8
Py
*
3
:
5

 

 

    

     
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
   
 

 

  

   

This humanoid is a little shorter than a human, Its rounded body is creatures or items touching them. Anyone who makes an.un
covered with fine scales, giving it the appearance of being pudgy or successful melee attack against a kuo-toa must succeed on a DC
bloated. The arms and legs are slender, almost willowy, ending in broad 14 Refl or the attacker's weapon sticks to the shield and i
hands and distended feet that look much like flippers. Its fishlike, bullet yanked out of the wielder’s grasp, Creatures using natural weap:
shaped head has bulging, silver-black eyes and a ons are automatically grappled if they get stuck.
wide mouth full of sharp teeth, toy A kuo-toa requires 1 hour and special

materials costing 20 gp te. coat a shield
with adhesive, The adhesive remains
good for up to three days or until it
actually catches someone or some
thing (in which case the shield c
trap no additional items, since the
adhesive is used up), Pulling a stuck
weapon or limb from_a shield requires.
DC 20 Strength check,
Amphibious (Ex): Although kuo
toas breathe by means of gills, they can
survive indefinitely on land.
Keen Sight (Ex); Kuo-toas have excellent
vision thanks to their two independently
focusing eyes, Their eyesight is so keen that

 

 

 

The kuo-toas are an ancient line of aquatic
humanoi
and diabolical tende: ncies

Although most ind
swith these loathsom
avoiding them is simply not possible. Kuo:
toas know much about long
evils dwelling in the deepest parts of the 0
erage kuo-toa stands roughly $ feet tall

 

is noted for

 

sinister nature

   

uals shun contact n.

creatures, sometimes

 

 

 

forgotten, ancient

 

ean

 

 

n
and weighs abour 160-pounds
Although kuo-toas are generally a si
color, their pigmentation changes with the:
mood. An angry kuo-toa is dark red, while a
frightened one becomes pale gray or even white

 

 

 

ver-gray

   

 

 

ey. can spot a moving objector creature
even. if it is invisible or ethereal, Only

by remaining pe: can. such
objects or creatures avoid their notice,
Light Blindness (Ex); Abrupt exposure to
bright light (such as sunlight ora daylight spell
nds _kuo-toas for 1 round, On subsequent

The air around a kuo-toa carries a strong odor of

   

rotting fish.
Kuo-toas speak Kuo-Toan, Undercommon, and

 

 

   

Kuo-toa tactics and weapons vary greatly depending
upon the training and skills of the individual rounds, they are dazzled while operating in
encountered, A group of kuo-toa fighters usually bright light
ion, throwing spears before closing to Slippery (Ex); All k
melee range. them difficult to grapy
Lightning Bolt (Su): Two or more dont affect kuo-toas, and they usually can wr
kuo-toa clerics (known as whips) oper
ating together can generate a stroke
of lightning every 1d4 rounds. The
whips must join hands to launch
the bolt but need merely be
within 30 feet of one another
while it builds, The lightning
bolt deals 1d6 points of electricity
damage per whip, buta successful
Reflex save (DC 13 + number of
whips) halves this amount
Pincer Staff: Many kuo-toa
fighters. and all whips of 2th
level or higher carry this Large
exotic weapon. A pincer staff deals
1d10 points ludgeoning damage,
ens a critical hiton a natural
and deals double damage ona crit
ical hit. It has a 10-foot reach and
cannot be used against an adjacent
opponent. A wielder that hits an op-
ponent of ar least Small but no larger
than Large size can attempt.to start a
grapple as a free action without provoking
an attack of opportun
the grapple check, the staff estab
lishes a hold and grabs the oppo
. dealing 1410 points of
e each round the hold is

    

>-toas sec an oily film that makes
le or snare. Webs,

     

fights in forn

   

gical or othe:
gle free from most

wise

 

  

 

 

other forms of confinement

Skills: Kuo-toas have a +8
and a +4 racial bonus on Spot and Se
‘A kito-toa has a +8 racial bonus
some special action or avoid a hazard, It can always choose to
take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endangered. It
can use the run action while swimming, provided it swims ina

 

 

onus on Escape Artist checks

ch checks,

     

n any Swim check to perform

 

      

straight

 

   

KUO-TOA SOCIETY
Kuo-toas dwell in subterranean communities that are well s
plied with pools for recreat
breeding. They spawn as fish do,
g their young in specia
pools until their amphibian
qualities develop (about a y
after hatching
Thanks.to the efforts of the whips,
virtually all k d wo
shipers of the goddess Blibdoolpoolp, whom they re!
to. as the Sea Mother, Every kuo-toa community has at
least one shrine to the Sea Mother. Larger communi

for clusters

  

 

 

raisi

 

 

   

ar

   

     
 

 

toas are devo

     

   

ties with major temples serve as hubs
of smaller settlements, These are also centers

for intergroup trade and politics. Virtually all
kuo-toa communities are open to.drow
and their servants, who provide
useful goods and services, althou
the drow are both feared and hated
toas, This enmi'
any_minor skir
Lemia___ and frequent kidnappings between

the two societies,

 

he wielder wins

 

    
 
 
 

   

y leads

 

maintained.
Adhesive (Ex);
Kuo-toas_use their own body oi

shes

 

 

and other materials to give

their shields a finish almost like flypaper, holding fast any

 
