 

Saves: Fort +3, Ref +1, Will +1

Special Attacks

Special Qualities: —

Abilities: Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int13, Wis 13, Cha 11

Skills: Craft (any one) +6, Listen +6, Spot +6, Swim +8

Feats: Weapon Focus (longspear)

Environment: Warm aquatic

Organization: Company (2-4), patrol (11-20 plus 2 3rd-level,
sergeants and 1 leader of 3rd—éth level), or tribe (30-100 plus
100% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 10 adults, s
Sth-level lieutenants, and 3 7th-level captains:

Challenge Rating: 1/2

Treasure: Standard

Alignment: Usually neurral

Advancement: By character class

Level Adjustment: +1

 

  

 

This humanoid is slender and a little shorter than a
Auman..Jt has fine, yellow-green scales and large fins
on its.arms and legs.

The nomadic locathahs dwell in
warm coastal waters, hunting fish
and gathering crustaceans for
food. Although humanoid in
shape, they are clearly more fish
than human.

Locathahs are not partic
ularly aggressive but do
not trust surface dwellers:
too many of their kind have been
swept up in fishing nets.

The average locathah stands 5 feet
tall and weighs 175 pounds. Females
and males look very much alike, al
though the former can be recognized
by the two ochre stripes marking their
egg sacs.

Locathahs speak Aquan.

2OMBAT

Any bartle with locathahs usually begins
with the creatures loosin,
of bolts from their crossbows;
underwater, their cross
bows have.a range incre
ment of 20 feet. If they
have managed to set up an
ambush or other trap, they con
tinue to employ crossbows for as long as pos
sible Otherwise, they close to bring their longspears into play
Although primarily used for fishing, these spears make formida
ble weapons

Locathahs lack teeth, claws, and other natural weapons, so they
are not especially dangerous if unarmed. A weaponless locathah
will generally turn and flee,

Skills: A locathah has.a

 

a

volleys

 

 

 

racial bonus on.any. Swim check to

perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always

choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan
gered, It can use the run action. while swimming, provided it
swims in.a straight line.

LOCATHAH SOCIETY
\Locathah tribes usually move with each change of season, going
where they can find food. They make their encampments in caves,
rocky_areas, or seaweed beds—locales that afford some conceal:
mentand protection, Patrols are usually hunting parties after

   

    
  

small game, but they also keep a lookout for enemies trespassing
in the tribe's hunting area. Larger patrols of locathah are some-
times found tracking big animals or engaged in similar activities
Entire tribes.come together to trade or hold council.

Locathahs revere the deity Eadro, who created both them and
ithe merfolk.

LOCATHAH CHARACTERS
A locathahis favored class is barbarian, and most locathah leaders
are barbarians. Most locathah spellcasters are adepts. Locathah
clerics worship Eadro. A locathah cl
following domains: Animal, Protection, or Water.

——____LYCANTHROPE

Lycanthropes are humanoids or giants who can transform. them:
selves into animals. In its natural form, a lycanthrope looks like
any other members of its kind, though natural lycanthropes and
those who have been afflicted for along time tend to have or
acquire features reminiscent of their animal forms, such as
thick, shaggy hair, pointed teeth, or long, strong fingers, In
animal form, a lycanthrope resembles.a powerful ver
sion of the normal animal, but on_close inspection, its
eyes (which often glow red in the dark) show a faint
spark of unnatural intelligence.
Eyil lycanthropes often hide among normal folk,
emerging in animal form at night (especially under a
full moon) to spread terror and bloodshed. Good.
lycanthropes tend to be reclusive individuals, uncom
fortable around large numbers of people. They often
live alone in wilderness areas, far from villages and.
towns.
Lycanthropy can be spread like a disease. Some.
J times a lycanthrope begins life as a normal
humanoid or giant who subsequently con:
tracts lyeanthropy after being wounded by
a lycanthrope. Such a creature.is called an
afflicted lycanthrope. Other lycanthropes
are born as lycanthropes,.and are known as
natural lycanthropes.

c has access.to two of the

 

      
   
  
 
      
      
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

ombat

A lycanthrope in its humanoid (or giant

form_uses whatever tactics and

x weapons are favored by others of

its kind, though it tends to be

slightly more aggressive. A lycan-

thrope possesses the senses of its animal

form, including scent and low-light vision

and it has a deep empathy for (and ability to commu

nicate with) animals of its animal form. An afflicted lycanthrope

damaged in combat may be overwhelmed by rage, causing it to
change to its animal form involuntarily.

A lycanthrope in animal form fights like the animal it resem:
bles, although its bite carries the disease of lycanthropy. It is
preternaturally cunning and strong, and possesses damage reduc
tion that is overcome only by silvered weapons.

Finally,.a natural lycanthrope (or an afflicted lycanthrope that
has become aware.of its affliction) can assume a hybrid form.that.
isa mix ofits humanoid and animal forms. A hybrid has hands. and.
can use weapons, but it can also artack with its teeth and claws.A.
hybrid can.spread lycanthropy with its bite, and it has the same.
damage reduction that its animal form poss:

WEREBEAR
This.hulking humanoid is covered in shaggy brown fur and has long claws
and @ bearlike face. It carries a greataxe in one paw.

 

 

es,
