 

Alignment: Any. Noble creatures such as bears, eagles, and

lions tend to produce good-aligned lycanthropes. Sinister crea-
tures such as rats, snakes, and wolves tend to produce evil-aligned
lycanthropes. This is a reflection of how these animals are per-

ceived, not any-innate quality of the animal itself, so the Dungeon,
Master can arbitrarily assign the alignment of the animal form.

Advancement: By character class.
Level Adjustment: Same as the base creature +2 (afflicted) or
{+3 (natural). In addition, a lycanthrope's character level is}

increased by.the number of racial Hit Dice the base animal has.|

COMMON LYCANTHROPES

dt ‘Animal or Hybrid Form Preferred
Name Animal Form Ability Modifiers Alignment
Werebear Brown bear Str +16, Dex +2,Con +8 Lawful good
Wereboar Boar Str+4, Con +6 Neutral

, Wererat Direrat Dex +6, Con +2 Chaotic evil

| Weretiger Tiger Str +12, Dex +4, Con +6 Neutral.

Werewolf Wolf Str 42, Dex +4,Con+4 Chaotic evil

[Dire wereboar Direboar Str +16, Con +6 Neutral.

LYCANTHROPY AS AN AFFLICTION

When a character contracts lycanthropy through a lycanthrope’s
bite (see above), no symptoms appear until the first night of the
next full moon. On that night, the afflicted character involuntarily
assumes animal form and forgets his or her own identity, tem-
\porarily becoming an NPC under the DM’s control, The character
|remains in animal form, assuming the appropriate alignment,
juntil the next dawn.

| The character's actions during this first episode are dictated by.
ithe alignment of its animal form. Good-aligned lycanthropes seek
\to avoid settlements or travelers and nonnatural environments,
seeking out wilderness environs. They may.hunt the natural prey
lof their kind, but avoid attacking good and neutral intelligent crea-
tures, Evil-aligned lycanthropes seek to murderas many intelligent
creatures.as possible, often killing their own family. members and
friends. They generally seek out places where such victims may be

found. Neutral creatures seek remote areas and avoid contact with,
civilization, but might attack travelers or other folk abroad in the)
wilderness if the travelers are few in number. However, the attack |
is driven by natural ferocity and hunger, not malice. In any case,

the character remembers nothing about the entire episode (or sub-
sequent episodes) unless he succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom check, in
which case he becomes aware of his lycanthropic condition.
Thereafter, the character is subject to involuntary transforma-
tion under the full moon and whenever damaged in combat. He or
she feels an overwhelming rage building up and must succeed on
,a. Control Shape check (see page 303) to resist changing into
Janimal form. Any player character not yet aware of his or her
iycanthropic condition temporarily becomes an NPC under the
.DMs.control during an involuntary change, and acts as described
above depending on the alignment of his or her animal form,
A character with awareness of his condition retains his identity
and does not lose control of his actions if he changes. However,
each time he changes to his animal form, he must make a Will
saye (DC 15 + number of times he has been in animal form) or
permanently assume the alignment of his animal form in all
shapes. An evil lycanthrope who is aware of his actions in animal
form is not compelled ro murder. and kill indiscriminately, but he
delights in bloodshed and will certainly seek out opportunities to
{slaughter intelligent beings, preferably those. of his own race.
|__Once a character becomes aware of his affliction, he can. now vol-
juntarily attempt.to change to animal or hybrid form, using the
Jappropriate Control Shape check DC (see page 303), An attemptisa
standard action and can be made each round, Any voluntary change

to animal or hybrid form immediately and permanently changes.
the character's alignment to that of the appropriate lycanthrope..

Changing Form.

Changing form is a standard action. If the change is involuntary, the,
character performs the change on his next rurn following the trig-,
geting event. Changing to animal or hybrid form ruins the charac-

jter’s armor and clothing (including any items worn) ifthe new form

Lis larger than the character's natural form; carried items are simply
dropped. Characters.can hastily doff clothing while changing, but
not armor. Magic armor survives the change if ir succeeds on a DC
15 Fortitude save. An afflicted character who is not aware of his con-_

dition remains in animal form until the next dawn. An afflicted |
character who is aware of his or her condition (see above) can try to
resume humanoid form following a change (voluntary.or involun-
tary) with a Control Shape check, but if he fails his check, he
remains in animal (or hybrid) form until the following dawn.

Curing Lycanthropy

An afflicted character who eats a sprig of belladonna (also.called

[wolfsbane) within 1 hour of a lycanthrope’s attack can attempt a,

{DC 20 Fortitude save to shake off the affliction. If a healer admin-,

sisters the herb, use the character's save bonus or the healer's Heal
modifier, whichever is higher, The character gets only one chance,
no matter how.much belladonna is consumed. The belladonna
must be reasonably fresh (picked within the last week).

However, fresh or nor, belladonna is toxic. The character must
succeed on a DC 13 Fortitude save or take 1d6 points of Strength
damage. One minute later, the character must succeed ona second.
DC 13 save or take an additional 2d6 points of Strength damage. ,

A remove disease or heal spell cast by acleric.of 12th level or)
higher also cures the affliction, provided the character receives the |
spell within three days of the lycanthrope's attack. }

‘The only other way to remove the affliction is to cast remove
curse or break enchantment on the character during one of the three.
days of the full moon, After receiving the spell, the character must,
succeed on a DC 20 Will save to break the curse (the caster knows
if the spell works). If the save fails, the process must be repeated,
Characters undergoing this cure are often kept bound or confined
in cages until the cure takes effect.

Only afflicted lycanthropes can be cured of lycanthropy.

LYCANTHROPES AS CHARACTERS
Since they live in the wilderness, most lycanthropes become bar-
barians.or rangers. Wererats.tend to become rogues. Becoming a
lycanthrope does not change.a character's favored class but usually
changes alignment (see above). This alignment change may cause
characters of certain classes to lose some of their class features, as
noted in Chapter 3 of the Player's Handbook.

Lycanthrope characters possess the following racial traits.

— +2. Wisdom. Physical abilities are increased by the animal
form’ ability modifiers when a lycanthrope changes to its hybrid
or animal forms.

—Size same as the base creature. or the base animal form.

—Low-light vision in any form.

—Scentin any form.

—Racial Hit Dice: A lycanthrope adds the Hit Dice of its animal
form to its base Hit Dice for race, level, and class, These additional
Hit Dice modify the lycanthrope's base attack bonus and base
saving throw bonuses accordingly.

—Racial Skills: A lycanthrope adds skill points for its animal
Hit Dice much as if ithad multiclassed into the animal type.tt)
gains skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum1) per Hit
Die of the animal form. Any skills that appear in the animal's,
description are treated as class skills for the lycanthrope's animal,
levels, The lycanthrope’s maximum skill ranks are.equal to its.
\animal form Hit Dice + its racial Hit Dice (if any) + its class levels
[+ 3. Any-racial skill adjustments of the lycanthrope's base race and
Lits animal form (bur nor conditional adjustments) are added to its
skill modifiers in any form.
