ORC SOCIETY —Orc Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-ore is consid-

Ores believe that to survive, they must conquer as much territory ered an orc. Half-orcs, for example, are just as vulnerable ro special ,
as possible, which puts them at odds with all intelligent creatures effects that affect ores as their orc ancestors are, and they can use
that live near them. They are constantly warring with or preparing _magic items thatare only usable by orcs.

to war with other humanoids, including other orc tribes, They can _|_—Automatic Languages: Common, Ore. Bonus Languages: Dra-
ally with other humanoids fora time but quickly rebel if not com: {conic, Giant, Gnoll, Goblin, Abyssal.

manded by orcs. Their deities teach them that all other beings are} —Favored Class: Barbarian,

Linferior and thar all worldly goods rightfully belong to the orcs,

having been stolen by the others. Orc spellcasters are ambitious,
and rivalries between them and warrior leaders sometimes teatay QT YUGH

 

  

 

 
 
 
  
    

tribe apart. Large Aberration
Ore society is patriarchal: Females are prized possessions at best Hit Dice: 6d8+9 (36 hp)
and chattel at worst. Male orcs pride themselves on the number of Initiative: +0
females they own and male children they sire, as well as their Speed: 20 fr. (4 squares)
battle prowess, wealth, and amount of territory. They wear their Armor Class; 17 (1 size, +8 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 17
battle scars proudly and ritually scar themselves to mark signifi: Base Attack/Grapple: +4/+8
cantachievements and turning points in their lives. Attack: Tentacle +4 melee (1d6)
Anorc lair may be acave, a series of wooden huts, a fort, or even. -Full Attack: 2 tentacles +4 melee (1d6) and bite -2 melee (1d4)
a large city built above and below ground. A tribe includes females! _,Space/Reach: 10 ft,/10 ft. (15 ft. with tentacle)
(as many as there are males), young (half as many as there are, —_| Special Attacks: Constrict 1d6, disease, improved grab
females), and slaves (about one for every ten males) Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft.. scent
The chief orc deity is Gruumsh, a one-eyed god who tolerates Saves: Fort +3, Ref +2, Will +6
no sign of peaceability among his people. Abilities: Str11, Dex 10, Con.13, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 6
Skills: Hide -1°, Listen +6, Spot +6
ORCS AS CHARACTERS Feats: Alertness, Toughness, Weapon Focus.(tentacle)
Ore leaders tend to be barbarians, Ore clerics worship Gruumsh. Environment: Underground
,An ore cleric has access to two of the following domains: Chaos, Organization: Solitary, pair, or cluster (3-4) |
Evil, Strength, or War (favored weapon: any spear). Most orc spell-. _ Challenge Rating: 4 i
icasters are adepts, Orc adepts favor spells that deal damage. Treasure: Standard
Ore Traits (Ex): Ores possess the following racial traits. Alignment: Usually neutral
— +4 Strength, -2 Intelligence, -2 Wisdom, —2 Charisma. Advanceme: HD (Large); 9-18 HD (Huge)
—An orc’s base land speed is 30 feet. Level Adjustment: —
—Darkvision out to 60 feet.
| —Light Sensitivity: Orcs are dazzled in bright. sunlight or This creature looks like a bloated ovoid covered with a rocklike skin. A
& within the radius of a daylight spell. vinelike stalk about 2 feet long rises from the top of the disgusting body
= —Automatic Languages; Common, Orc. Bonus Languages and bears the two eyes, Its mouth—little more than a wide. gash filled
3 Dwarven, Giant, Gnoll, Goblin, Undercommon. with razor-sharp teeth—is in the center of the mass. The creature shuffles
S —Favored Class: Barbarian. j about on three thick, sturdy legs and has two. long tentacles covered in
4. Jrough, thomy protrusions. The tentacles_end_in.leaflike appendages
The ore warrior presented here had the following ability scores, _ covered in mare thorny growths.
before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9,
Cha 8.

HALF-ORCS
These.orc—human crossbreeds cah be found in
either orc or human society (where their
status varies according to local senti-
ments), or.in communities of their
own. Half-ores usually inherit a

,good blend of the physical char-
acteristics of their parents, They
are as tall as humans and a little
heavier, thanks to. their muscle.
They have greenish pigmenta-
tion, sloping foreheads, jutting jaws,
prominent teeth, and coarse body hair,
Half-orcs who have lived among or
near orcs have scars, in keeping with
orcish tradition.

Half-Orc Traits (Ex); Half-orcs possess
the following racial traits, q
— +2 Strength, —2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. _@

Medium size.

—A half-orc’s base land speed is 30
feet.

—Darkvision: Half-orcs can see in the
dark up to 60 feet.

 

 
