    
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
    
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
   
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
 
    
   
    

Spider illus. by B. Despain

    

This creature resembles a giant wolf spider, except with a larger head and This creature looks like a slithering blob o}
variegated markings in white, gray, and blue over the legs and back. Its wide and a little less than half that high,
eight eyes are silver-white.

 

ed goo perhaps 5 feet

 

A phasm is an amorphous creature that can assume the guise of

 

  
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
      
  

 

Phase spiders are aggressive predators that can moe quickly from, almost any other creature or object

the Ethereal Plane to attack opponents on the Material Plane, | Its shapeshifting ability frees a phasm from most material
A typical phase spider's body is 8 feet long. It weighs about 700| _|needs, which usually leads it to a life of exploration, hedonism, or

pounds, philosophical contemplation, There’ no telling where

Phase spiders cannot speak

COMBAT
Phase spiders dwell and hunt on
the Material Plane. Once a spi
der locates prey, however, it

a phasm.will turn up, nor what it will do if discov:
ered. They are natural spies but norori

 

 

ously unreliable, since they feel no
t

 

particular need to re
what they learn. They
have an affinity f
shifts to the Ethereal Plane to 5 \ doppelgang
attack, attempting to catch its
victim flat-footed. The spider
shifts in, bites its victim,

nd retreats quickly back
to the Ethereal Plane.

Ethereal Jaunt
(Su): A phase spi
der can shift
from the Ethe-
real Plane
ro the
Material Plane as a free action,
land shift back again as a move |
action (or during a move action). The ability is othe A phasm in its natural form is about $ feet in diameter and 2 feet
identical with ethereal jaunt (caster level 15th high at the center, Swirls of color indicate sensory organs. In this

Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 12, initial and secondary form, a phasm slithers about like an ooze and can attack with a
damage 1d8 Con, The save DC is Constitution-based. pseudopod. It weighs about 400 pounds,

Skills: A phase spider has a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks Phasms can speak Common but prefer telepathic communica
and can always choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed tion
or threatened

 

 

and_ sometimes
ally themselves
th groups of
them for secu
rity—or just
for the fun
of it,

 

 

   

   

   

 

COMBAT

 

a phasm is equally likely to

 

When faced with potential dange
PHASM retreat, parley, or attack, as its fancy strikes. Phasms value new

Medium Aberration (Shapechanger)

Hit Dice: 15d8+30 (97 hp’

Initiative: +6

Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares

Armor Class: 17 (+2 Dex, +5 natu:
ral), rouch 12, flar-foored 15

Base Attack/Grapple: +11/+12

Attack: Slam +12 melee (1d3+1)

Full Attack; Slam +12 melee

experi

 

nces: fresh scents and tastes, obscure facts, gossip, odd bric
a-brac, and the like. Those who offer a phasm such things stand a
good chance of avoiding a fight.

If pursued or harassed, a phasm transforms into the
most fearsome creature it-knows,
white dragon ora fire giant, and
ously hurt, it changes to some fast or agile

m and tries to escape.
Amorphous (Ex): A phasm in its nat

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  

  

uch as an adult
racks, When seri

 

 

 

id3+1 ural form has immunity to poison,
Space/Reach: 5 ft,/s fe cep, paralysis, polymorph, and stun
|Special Attacks: ning effects. It is not subject to criti

Special Qualities: Alternate form, amor:
phous, resilient, scent, telepathy 100 ft,, tremor
sense 60 ft

Saves: Fort +11, Ref +11, Will +11

cal hits and, having no clear f
back, cannot be flanked.

 

ont or

 
 

 

   

racial n Fortitude and Reflex
Abilities: Str 12, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 14 saves (included in the statistics block,
Skills: Bluff +20, Climb +7, Craft (any one) +12, Phasm Alternate Form (Su): A phasm can assume any form of Large

    
 

Diplomacy +12, Disguise +20 (+22 acting)®, Intimidate size or smaller as a standard action. This abiliry functions as 4 poly

     

 

 

+4, Knowledge (any one) +18, Listen +12, Spot +12, Survival morph spell cast on itself (caster level 1sth), except thar the phasm
Feats; Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, does not.regain hit points for changing form. A phasm.can remain
Improved Initiative, Mobility in its alternate form until it chooses to assume a new one.or return,
Environment: Underground to its natural form.
Organization: Solitary Tremorsense (Ex): A phasm can automatically sense the loca-|
{Challenge Rating: 2 tion of anything within. 60 feet that is in contact with the ground,
(Treasure: Standard so long as itis touching the ground itself
Alignment; Usually chaotic neutral Skills; “When using shapechange, a phasm gains a +10 circum:
Adyancement: 15-21 HD (Huge); 22-45 HD (Gargantuan’ stance bonus on Disguise checks,

Level Adjustment:

  
