 
   
 
   
   
    
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 

A roper stands some 9 feet tall and tapers from 3 or 4 feet in
diameter at the base to 1 foot across at the top, It weighs 2,200
pounds, A roper's coloration and temperature change to match the
features of the surrounding cave.

Ropers speak Terran and Undercommon.

COMBAT
\A roper hunts by standing very still and imitating a bit of rock
This tactic often allows it to attack with surprise. When prey)
comes within reach, it lashes outwith its strands. In melee, ir bites.
adjacent opponents with its powerful maw.

Drag (Ex): Ifa roper hits with a strand attack, the strand latches
onto the opponent's body, This deals no damage but drags the
stuck opponent 10 feet closer each subsequent round (provoking
no attack of opportunity) unless that creature breaks free, which
requires a DC 23 Escape Artist check or a DC 19 Strength check.
The check DCs are Strength-based, and the Escape Artist DC
includes a.+4 racial bonus. A roper can draw in a creature within
10 feet of itself and bire with a +4 attack bonus in the same round.)

strand has 10 hit points and can be attacked by making a suc
cessful sunder attempt. However, attacking a roper's strand does
not provoke an attack of opportunity. If the strand is currently
attached to a target, the roper takes a —4 penalty on its opposed
attack roll to resist the sunder attempt, Seveting a strand deals no
damage to a roper:
Strands (Ex); Most encounters with aroper begin when it fires
strong, sticky strands. The creature can have up to six strands at
‘ance, and.they can strike up to $0 feet away (no range increment
Ufa strand is severed, the roper can extrude a new one on its next
turn asa free action
Weakness (Ex); A roper's strands can sap.an.opponent's
strength. Anyone grabbed by a strand must succeed on a DC 18
Fortitude save or take 2d8 points of Strength damage. The save DC
is Constitution-based.
Skills: *Ropers have a +8 racial bonus on Hide checks in stony
or icy areas.

—____ RUST MONSTER

Medium Aberration
Hit Dice: 5d8+5 (27 hp!
Initiative: +3
Speed: 40 ft. (8 squares
Armor Class; 18.(+3 Dex, +5 natural), touch 13, f
Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+3
Attack: Antennae.touch +3 melee (rust
Full Attack: Antennae touch +3 melee
(rust) and bite -2 melee (1d3)
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft
Special Attacks: Rust
Special Qualities: Darkvision, scent
Sayes: Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +
Abilities: Str 10, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 2,
Wis 13, Cha8
Skills: Listen +7, Spot +7
Feats: Alertness, Track
Environment: Underground
Organization: Solitary or pair
Challenge Rating: 3
Treasure: None
Alignment: Always neutral
|Advancement; 6-8 HD (Medium),
9-15 HD (Large.
Level Adjustment; —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

at-footed 15

 

 

 

This creature seems to be about the size of a
pony..It.has four insectlike legs and a squat, humped. body protected by a

   

  

thick lumpy hide Its tail is covered with armor plates and ends in.a bony
projection that looks like a double-ended paddle, The creature sports two
long antennae on its head, one beneath each eye.

Most fighters would rather face an army of ores than confront a
rust monster. These creatures corrode and eat metal objects and
have ruined the armor, shields, and weapons of countless adven:
turers.

 

The hide of these creatures varies in color from a yellowish tan.
underside to a rust-red upper back. A rust monster's prehensile
antennae can rust metals on contact.

The typical rust monster measures $ feet long and 3 feet high,
weighing 200 pounds

COMBAT

A rust monster can scent a metal object from upto 90 feet away
When it detects one, it dashes toward the source and attempts to
strike it with its antennae. The creature is relentless, chasing char-
jacters over long distances if they still possess intact metal objects.
but usually ceasing its attacks to devour a freshly rusted meal, A
clever (or desperate) character can often distract a hungry rust
monster by tossing it some metal objects, then fleeing while it
consumes them.

The creature targets the largest metal object available, striking
first at armor, then at shields and smaller isems, Jt prefers ferrous
metals (steel or iron) over precious metals (such as gold or silver’
but will devour the latter if given the opportunity,

Rust (Ex); A rust monster thar makes a successful touch artack |
with its antennae causes the target metal to corrode, falling to
pieces and becoming useless immediately. The touch can destroy
up to a 10-foor cube of metal instantly. Magic armor.and weapons,
and other magic items made of metal, must succeed_on a DC 17
Reflex save or be dissolved, The save DC is Constitution-based and
includes a +4 racial bonus,

A metal weapon that deals damage to a rust monster corrodes
immediately. Wooden, stone, and other nonmetallic weapons are
unaffecte

 

 

 

  

  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
   

Rust monster

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
     
 
   
   
 
    

 
  

  
  
