 

“A sahuagin has a +4 racial bonus on Survival and Profession
(hunter) checks within 50 miles of its home,

*A sahuagin has a +4 racial bonus. on Handle Animal checks
when working with sharks.

SAHUAGIN MUTANTS

About one in two hundred sahuagin has four arms. Such creatures |

can make four claw attacks or use extra weapons, in addition to the
claw and bite attacks,

Ifa community of aquatic elves is located within 100 miles of a

sahuagin community, about one in one hundred sahuagin looks
just like an aquatic elf, These creatures, called malenti, have a swim
-speed of 40 feet, can remainont of water for 1 hour per point of
Constitution, and have freshwater sensitivity and light sensitivity
(dazzled in bright light). Malenti have no natural attacks, They are
otherwise identical with sahuagin,

SAHUAGIN SOCIETY

|The sca devils live by a code of ritualized behavior developed over |

}millennia. Every member of a sahuagin
community knows its place well—and
remains there. The sahuagin
pride themselves on
self-sufficiency and
strict adherence to hr
their social code. " ‘
,Unfortunately for
jothers, one _of
their core beliefs is
thar the survival of
ithe sahuagin de-
ypends on ruthlessly
eradicating anything
that is not sabuagin.
Sahuagin dwell in
communities of vary-
ing sizes, from villages
to cities, built of stone
and other natural mate-
rials deep beneath the
ocean waves. The crea
tures employ a variety
of defenses, both pas-
sive (such as seaweed
camouflage) and active
(such_as traps and tame
sharks), to protect their com-
munities. Elite groups of senior
jmales (especially the four-armed ones) rule each community.
}A baron governs a village, while a prince rules approximately
twenty villages. Sahuagin kings rule much larger territories and
dwell within cities having as many as six thousand inhabitants. A
sahuagin kingdom generally covers an entire seacoast, with vil-
lages and towns at least 100 miles apart. Sahuagin clerics function

 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

as teachers and keepers of lore, controlling religious life in their
communities, Despite the presence of these priestesses within
their society, the superstitious sea devils distrust and fear magic

The patron deity of sahuagin is Sekolah, a great devil shark.

SAHUAGIN CHARACTERS
A male sahuagin's favored class is ranger, and most sahuagin lead-
jers are rangers. Most sahuagin rangers choose humanoids (elves)
has their favored enemy. Female sahuagin favor the cleric class.
Sahuagin clerics worship Sekolah. A sahuagin cleric has access to
two of the following domains: Evil, Law, Strength, or War (favored.
weapon: trident).

      
      
   
   
   
    
   

 

 

This.being has.a muscular humanoid upper body with o hawkish face.
Its body is serpentine from the waist down, and is covered in red and

black scales. Flame-shaped spines sprout form the creature's spine,
Larms, and head.

The Elemental Plane of Fire is home to many strange creatures,

including the fearsome legions of the salamanders, These serpen-
tine beings dwell in metal cities glowing with supernatural heat,

Salamanders are selfish and cruel, and they enjoy tormenting
others. They are rarely encountered without their heated metal
spears, but sometimes wield other weapons.

When summoned to the Material Plane, salamanders often
assist forge workers and smiths. Their ability to work metal while
it’s still in the fire makes them some of the best metalsmiths
known anywhere,

Salamanders reproduce asexually, each producing a single
Jarva every ten years and incubating the young in fire pits until
they reach maturity, Flamebrothers and average salamanders are
actually different species, while nobles rise from the ranks of the

average,
Salamanders speak Ignan..Some average
salamanders and all nobles also speak
Common,

COMBAT
Salamanders use metal spears,
heated red-hot by their own
furnacelike bodies. Blood-
thirsty and_ sadistic,
they are quick to.at-
tack. They_prefer.to.
take on those who
appear_strongest
first, saving weaker
enemies for slower,
agonizing treatment
later.

If a salamander
has damage reduc-
tion, its natural

weapons are treated

as magic weapons for
the purpose of over-
coming damage reduction.

Constrict (Ex); A salaman-

der deals automatic tail slap damage
including fire damage) with a successful
grapple check. A noble salamander.can constrict multiple crea-
tures simultaneously, provided they are all at least two sizes
smaller than it.

Heat (Ex): A salamander generates so much heat that its mere
touch deals additional fire damage. Salamanders’ metallic weap-
ons.also conduct this heat.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a salamander must hit
acreature of up to one size larger than itself with its tail slap attack,
It can then attempt to start a grapple as a free action without pro-,
voking an_attack of opportunity. If it wins the grapple check, it
establishes a hold and can constrict.

Spell-Like Abilities: (Noble salamanders only) 3/day—burn-
ing hands (DC 13), fireball (DC 15), flaming sphere (DC 14), wall of fire!
(DC 16), 1/day—dispel magic, summon monster VIL (Huge fire ele-|
mental). Caster Jevel 15th. The save DCs are Charisma-based,

Skills: Salamanders have a +4 racial bonus on Craft (black-
smithing) checks.

 

 
