grasp or lightning bolt) used against a shambler temporarily grants it
1d4. points of Constitution. The shambler loses these points at the
rate of 1 per hour.

Skills: Shamblers have a +4 racial bonus on Hide, Listen, and
Move Silently checks. "They have a +12 racial bonus on Hide
checks when in a swampy or forested area,

—___SHTFLD GUARDIAN

Large Construct
Hit Dice: 15d10+30 (112 hp
Initiative: +0
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares
Armor Class: 24 (-1 size, +15 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 24
Base Attack/Grapple: +11/+21
Attack: Slam +16 melee (1d.
Full Attack: 2 slams +16 mele
Space/Reach: 10 ft,/10 ft
Special Attacks: ~
Special Qualities: Construct traits, darkvision 60 ft., fast
healing 5, find master, guard, low-light vision, shield other, spell
storing
wes: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +s
Abilities: Str 22, Dex 10, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1
Environment; Any
Organization: Solitary
Challenge Rating: 8
‘Treasure: None
Alignment: Always neutral
Advancement: 16-24 HD (Large); 25-45 HD (Huge:
Level Adjustment: —

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  

Shambine moynd

 

       

 

   

 

Shield guardian

This creature looks like a mass of leaves and vines with a generally human:
like form, tt.has.a barrel-shaped body with ropy arms and stumpy le;
doesn't seem to have a head.

 

Shambling mounds, also called shamblers, appear to be heaps of
rotting vegetation. They are actually intelligent, carnivorous
plants,

A shambler's brain and sensory organs are located in its upper
body.

A shambler is almost totally silent and inyisible in its natural
surroundings, often catching opponents flat-footed. It may lie par
tially submerged in a shallow bog, waiting patiently for some crea
ture to walk onto it. Shamblers move easily chrough water as well,
and they have been known to sneak into the camps of unsuspect
ing travelers at night

Adventurers tell stories of shamblers moving about during
intense electrical storms.without so much as flinching from direct
lightning strikes.

A shambler’s body has an 8-foot girth and is about 6 feet tall
when the creature stands erect. It weighs about 3,800 pounds.

COMBAT

A shambling mound batters or constricts its opponents with two

huge, armlike appendages.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a shambler must hit

with both slam attacks. It can then attempt to start a grapple asa
action without provoking an attack of opportunity. If it wins
the grapple check, it establishes a hold and can constrict.

Constrict (Ex): A shambler deals 2d6+7 points of damage with
a successful grapple check.

Immunity.to Electricity (Ex): Shamblers take no damage
from electricity, Instead, any electricity attack (such as shocking

 

 

 

 

  
  

 
