SOMBAT

Full Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d4)

Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft

Special Attacks: Stunning shock, lethal shock

Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft. electricity sense, immunity
to electricity, low-light.vision

Saves: Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +1

Abilities: Str 10, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6

Skills: Climb +11, Hide +11, Jump +7, Listen +4, Spot +4,
Swim +10

Feats: Improved Initiative

Environment: Warm marshes

Organization: Solitary, pair, clutch (3—5), or colony (6-11

Challenge Rating: 2

‘Treasure: 1/10 coins; 50% good
items

Alignment: Always neutral

Advancement: 3-4 HD (Small.
HD (Medium:

Level Adjustment: —

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

This little lizard is. about the size of a terrier, It has
a bullet-shaped head sporting a large pair of homs that
sweep back from the sides like spiky ears. A similar struc
ture appears on the tip of the tail

The shocker lizard is a sleek reptilelike creature whose body
can generate intense electrical shocks

Ashocker lizard has a pale gray or blue underside, shading
ker hu its back. It has blue-black marking:
along its back and tail.

Shocker lizards prefer warm and damp
conditions, and often lurk in swamps,
shaded riverbanks, and water-filled
caves, They hunt fish, reptiles, and
small animals, but also scavenge or take
larger prey from time to time. They spend most
of their time hiding and wait
happen by.

Ashocker lizard is about 1 foot tall at the shoulder
and weighs about 25 pounds.

  

   

ng for prey to

Unless it is very hungry, a shocker lizard dislikes fight
ing creatures larger than itself and usually tries to
warn off intruders by emitting a series of rapid
clicks, The sound is actually a low:
n

a

 

power electrical discharge
living creatures within 10 feet
can feel the current tick
ling their skins and
scalps, If the warning fails,
the lizard raises its horns.and tail to adminis

ter stunning shocks.

A shocker lizard relies on its electricity abilities in combat. A
lizard tends to bite only.after its shock has rendered an opponent
unconscious or when the shock seems to have no effect at all. A
solitary lizard flees once it delivers its shocks, butif other shocker
lizards are nearby, they all home in on their comrade's discharges
and attempt to administer their shocks to the foe.

Stunning Shock (Su): Once per-round, a shocker lizard can
deliver an electrical shock to single opponent within 5 feet. This
attack deals 2d8 points of nonlethal damage to living opponents

Reflex DC 12 half). The save DC is Constitution-based

Lethal Shock (Su); Whenever two or more shocker lizards
are within 20 feet of each other, they can work together to create
a lethal shock. This effect has a radius of 20 feet, centered on any
one contributing lizard. The shock deals 2d8 points of electricity

 

 

 

 

 

damage for each lizard contributing to it, to a maximum of 1248.
A Reflex save (DC 10 + number of lizards contributing) reduces
the damage by half.

Electricity Sense (Ex): Shocker lizards automatically detect
any electrical discharges svithin 100 feet

Skills: Shocker lizards have a +4 racial bonus on Hide checks
due to their coloration. Shocker lizards have a +2 racial bonus on
Listen and Spot checks.

Shocker lizards use their Dexterity modifier instead of their
Strength modifier for Climb and Jump checks.

A shocker lizard has a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks and can
always choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed or
threatened.

Ashocker lizard has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to per
form some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always choose to
take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or
endangered. It can use the run action while swim
ming, provided it swims in a straight line.

 

 

This creature appears. to. be nothing
By but a. set of animated. bones. Pin:
points of red_light smolder. in_ its
empty eye sackets.

 

Skeletons are the animated
bones of the dead, mindless,
automatons that obey the
orders of their evil masters,

A skeleton is seldom.
garbed in anything more
than the rotting remnants
of any clothing or armor it

was wearing when slain

A skeleton does only what it

is ordered to do. In can draw no
conclusions of its own and takes no
initiative. Because of this limitation,
its instructions must always be
simple, such as “Kill anyone
who enters this chamber.

Skeleton

skeleton attacks

 

until destroyed, for
that is what it
was created to
do. The threat

posed by a

group of
skeletons depends
\ primarily on its size

CREATING A SKELETON
‘Skeleton” is an acquired template that can be added to any cor
poreal creature (other than an undead) thar has a skeletal system
referred to hereafter as the base creature

Size and Type: The creature's type changes to undead. It
retains any subtype except for alignment subtypes (such as good
and subtypes that indicate kind (such as goblinoid or reptilian),
It does not gain.the augmented subtype. It uses all the base crea:
ture's statistics and special abilities except.as noted here.

Hit Dice: Drop any Hit Dice gained from class levels (to a}
minimum of 1) and raise remaining Hit Dice to.di2s, If the crea:
ture has more than 20 Hit Dice, it cant be made into a skeleton
by.the animate dead spell.

Speed: Winged skeletons cant use their wings to fly. If the
base creature flew magically, so.can the skeleton.

  

 

 

 

 
