  
   
  
   
 

 
  

‘Treasure: None

Alignment: Always neutral

Advancement: None

Level Adjustment: —

A whitring mass of quick.darting shadows sweeps closer. Hundreds of
high-pitched squeaks fill the air

A bat swarm is a mass of small, flerce carnivorous bats with a thirst}
forthe blood of any creature unfortunate enough to cross their path.)
A bat swarm is nocturnal, and is never found aboveground in

(daylight.

Combat
A bat swarm seeks to surround and attack any warm-blooded prey
it encounters, The swarm deals 1d6 points of damage to any crea-
ture. whose space it occupies at the end of its move.

Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with}
\aswarm in its space must succeed on a DC 11 Fortitude save or be}
jnauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based.

‘Wounding (Ex): Any living creature damaged by a bat swarm

continues to bleed, losing 1 hit point per round thereafter. Multi-
ple wounds do not result in cumulative bleeding loss. The bleed-
ing can be stopped by a DC 10 Heal check or the application of 2
cure spell or some other healing magic.

Blindsense (Ex); A bat swarm notices and locates creatures
{within 20 feet. Opponents still have total concealment against the
{bat swarm (but swarm attacks ignore concealment).

Skills: A bat swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Listen and Spot
ichecks. These bonuses are lost if its blindsense is negated.

GENTIPEDE SWARM

Diminutive Vermin (Swarm)

Hit Dice; 948-9 (31 hp)

Initiative: ++

Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares), climb 20 ft.

Armor Class; 18 (+4 size, +4 Dex), touch 18, flat-footed 14
Base Attack/Grapple: +6/—

Attack: Swarm (2d6 plus poison)

Full Attack: Swarm (2d6 plus poison)

Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft.

Special Attacks: Distraction, poison

Special Qualities; Darkvision 60 ft., immune to weapon

damage, swarm traits, tremorsense 30 ft., vermin traits

Saves; Fort +5, Ref +7, Will +3.

Abilities: Str 1, Dex 19, Con 8, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 2
Skills; Climb +12, Spot +4
Feats: Weapon Finesse®
Environment: Underground
Organization: Solitary, tangle (2-4.swarms), or colony (7-12
»~Swarms)

Challenge Rating: 4

Treasure: None

Alignment: Always neutral

Advancement; None

Level Adjustment: —

A glistening, squirming mass of blue-black insects advances like.a venomous
any.

\Acentipede swarm is a crawling mass of voracious centipedes that
{can climb over obstacles to get at prey

Combat. =
‘A.centipede swarm seeks to surround and attack any living prey it
encounters. A swarm deals 2dé points of damage to any creature |
whose space it occupies at the end of its move.

    

     
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
  

Distraction (Ex); Any living creature that begins its rurn with a
centipede swarm in its space must succeed on a DC 13 Fortitude,
save or be nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based.

Poison (Ex); Injury, Fortitude DC 13, initial and secondary.

damage 1d4 Dex. The save DC is Constitution-based.

Skills: A centipede swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Spot checks

jand a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks, and uses its Dexterity mod-
ifier instead of its Strength modifier for Climb checks,

A centipede swarm has.a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks and.

can always choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed or,
threatened.

HELLWASP SWARM
Diminutive Magical Beast (Extraplanar, Evil, Swarm)
Hit Dice; 12d10+27 (93 hp)
Initiative: +10
Speed: 5 ft. (1 square), fly 40 ft.
|Armor Class: 20 (+4 size, +6 Dex), touch 20, flat-footed 14
Base Attack/Grapple: +12/—
Tattack: Swarm (346 plus poison)
Full Attack: Swarm (3d6 plus poison)
Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft.
Special Attacks: Distraction, inhabit, poison
Special Qualities; Damage reduction 10/magic, darkvision
60 ft,, hive mind, immune to weapon damage, resistance to.
fire 10, low-light vision, swarm traits.
Saves: Fort +10, Ref +14, Will +7
Abilities: Str1, Dex 22, Con 14, Int 6, Wis 13, Cha 9
Skills: Hide +19, Listen +10, Spot +10
Feats: Ability Focus (poison), Alertness, Improved Initiative,
Iron Will, Toughness
Environment: Bleak Eternity of Gehenna
Organization: Solitary, fright (2-4 swarms), or terror (5-8
swarms)
Challenge Rating: §
Treasure: None
Alignment: Always lawful evil
Advancement: None
Level Adjustment: —

An angry buzz fills the air around a darting cloud of thousands of ruby-red
insects,

Hellwasps are vicious, foul-tempered magical insects from the
infernal. planes. A single hellwasp resembles a thumb-sized
normal wasp, except its carapace is gleaming black with ruby-red
stripes, and its compound eyes are an iridescent green. In swarms,
hellwasps form a collective hive mind intelligence with infernal
cunning and bloodlust.

Combat
Like any_swarm, a hellwasp swarm. seeks to surround and attack
any living prey it encounters, A swarm deals 3d6 points of damage
to any creature whose space it occupies at the end of its move. The
swarm_can_take over the bodies of its prey and infest both the liv-
ing and the dead, using them as horrible living (or unliving) pup-
pets to accomplish acts of wickedness that a swarm of insects
could never attempt,

A hellwasp swarm’ attack is treated as an evil-aligned weapon and

a magic weapon for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction,

Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its.rurn witha.
hellwasp swarm in its space must succeed on a. DC 18 Fortitude save |
or be nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is. Constitution-based,|

Inhabit.(Ex); A hellwasp swarm.can enter.the body of a help-

less or dead creature by crawling into its mouth and other orifices,

\Inhabiting requires 1. minute, and the victim must be Small,
Medium, or Large (although four swarms working together can
