Feats: Awesome Blow, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Improved Bull Rush,
Improved Sunder, Power Attack, Quicken Spell-Like Ability
chain lightning)

Environment: Olympian Glades of Arborea

Organization: Solitary or pair

Challenge Rating: 21

Treasure: Double standard plus +4
Gargantuan +3 adamantine warhammer

Alignment: Always chaotic (any,

Advancement: 21-30 HD (Huge); 31-60 HD (Gargantuan,

Level Adjustment:

 

This. being looks like a giant-sized human of great physical strength and
beauty. It carries an enormous.warhammer. It see

assured,

 

ms very lively and self

Titans are statuesque beings of heroic proportions, They have agile
minds and power
horea.

Titans favor heavy armor crafted in ancient designs. They wear
valuable jewelry and generally make themselves seem
beautiful and overpowering

Titans are wild and chaotic, masters of their own fates. They are
closer to the wellsprings of life than mere mortals and so revel in
existence. They are prone to more pronounced emotions than hu
mans and can experience deitylike fits of rage, Many titans are
powerful servants of good, bur in ages past the race of titans re
belled against the deities themselves, and a number of titans
turned to evil. An evil titan is an indomitable tyrant who often
masters entire kingdoms of mortal.

A titan is about 25 feet tall and weighs about 14,000 pounds

Titans speak Abyssal, Common, Celestial, Draconic, and Giant.

SOMBAT
Titans can wreak havoc with their massive warhammers, which
are sometimes referred to as “mauls of the titans.” In
addition to.their considerable battle prowess, titans
possess great speed and considerable magical
power

 

 

 

rare ar

 

 

 

 

A titan’ natural weapons, as well as any weapons
it wields, are treated as chaotic-aligned for the pur
pose of overcoming damage reduction

Oversized Weapon (Ex); A titan
wields a_great, two-handed war
hammer (big enough for Gargan
tuan creatures) without
penalty.

Spell-Like Abilities
At will

DC_23)
DC 21), cure critical wounds (DC 21 y

DC 24), greater dispel
magi ster (DC 22), invisi
bility, invisibility  purge,levitate,
ent image (DC 22),
(humanoid

 

chain lightning

charm monster

fire_storm
hold mo

   

persis

 

polymorph

forms only, duration 1

 

hour); 3/day—ethere
alness, word of chaos (DC
22), summon nature's ally IX; 1/day
maze, meteor swarm (DC 26
Charisma-hase:

In addition, titans of good or neutral alj
lowing additional spell-like abilities: Ar will
DC 21 se (DC 21); 1/day—greater restoration. Caster
level 20th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.

Titans of evil alignment can use the following additional spell:

    

Caster level 20th. The save DCs are

 

use the fol:
holy. smite

ment ca
dayligl

   

 

remove

   

ful bodies. Many come from the plane of

    

like abilities; Ar will—bestow curse (DC eper darkness, unholy
blight (DC. 21); 1/day—Bigby’s crushing hand (DC 26). Caster level
20th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.

TACTICS ROUND-BY-ROUND

Titans enjoy combat and usually close with their foes. If that
proves ineffective, they swiftly back off and pelt the foe with spell-
like abilities and magical effects. Because of a titan’s Quicken
Spell-Like Ability feat, it.can use chain lightning as.a
and frequently attacks in melee while lashing out with this ability
at the same time.

Prior to combat: Invisibility purge or invisibility

Round 1: Charge and attempt to sunder the weapon of the most
dangerous foe. Hurl chain lightning at opponents standing away
from the fight.

Round 2: Full attack against the disarmed oppor
chain lightning ar other opponents

Round 3: Back away from first opponent ani
swarm on any spellcaster causing trouble

Round 4: Sunder the weapon of the-r
ant, or use greater dispel magic on all nearby opponents.

Round 5: Full attack against any nearby opponent, or use fire storm.
Use another quickened chain lightning if foes seem really dangerous

A titan usually reserves its gate and etherealness abilities to escape
a fight that is not going well.

 

 

 

 

free action,

  

 

nt, and hurl

   

use maze or meteor

 

xt most effective combat

 

 

  

 

This creature resembles a snopping turtle. It

 

a. spindle-shaped shell
made up of hexagonal plates and a narrow head with jaws that open hori

20

 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  

ally rather than vertically. A seemingly random array of crablike.
id paddles sprout from openings at both ends of the creature's shel

 

Tojanidas are omnivores from the Elemental Plane of Water
Though they seem clumsy and innocuous at first glance, th
nimble swimmers and capable fighters.

A tojanida’s shell is blue-green in color, Inside the sh
fleshy body from which extend seven stalks. Four of these stalks

y are

 

  

isa

   

 
