  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

    

bonus on grapple checks, lifting and carrying limits double those
of Medium characters.

Space/Reach: 10 feet/10 feet.

A troll’s base land speed is 30 feet

Darkyision out to.60 feetand low-light vision.

—Racial Hit Dice: A troll begins with six leve
provide 6d8 Hit Dice, a base attack bonus of +4, an
Ref +2, and Will +2
Racial Skills: A trolls giant levels give it skill points equal ro
9 x (2 + Int modifi um.1) Its class skills are
Listen and Spot
Racial Feats: A troll’s giant levels give it three feats.

+5 natural armor bonus,
Natural Weapons: Claw (1d6) and bite (1d6
Special Attacks (see above); Rend, damage 2d6.
+ 1-1/2 times Str modif
Special Qualities: Regeneration 5, scent.
Automatic Languages: Giant. Bonus Lan
guages: Common, Ore.
—Fayored Class: Fighter.
—Level adjustment +5

—_ MBER HULK

This hulking, powerfully built creature. looks something like
across between a great ape and a beetle. The low, rounded
head is dominated by a massive pair. of mandibles.and rows
of triangular teeth, It has two big compound eyes like a
beetle's, with two smaller eyes like on ape’s- i

    
 
 
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
     
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
    
 
    
  
 

 

 

of giant, which

 

 

base saving

 

throw bonuses of Fort +

   

min

 

 

 

 

er

 

 

 

between.

 

   

   

 

3d6 minutes, The creature can reattach the severed member

instantly by hol

  
   
 
   

 

ing it to the stump

Armor plates cover virtually all of its chitinows body, whose scat-
tered feelers.resemble sparse hair.
od ae 1 nl 1 1
wR Umber hulks are massive creatures that dwell deep be
= neath the earth. Ripping through rock as though it were light
3 Regeneration (Ex): Fire and acid deal normal damage.to.a troll underbrush, they rampage continuously, leaving destruction in
= Ifa troll loses a limb or body part, the lost portion regrows in their wake.
2
Ss

SCRAG
These cousins of the troll have the aquatic subtype, They dwe!
any body of water in any climate, They have a base land speed of 20
feet and a swim speed of 40 feet and are found only in ai
ronments. They regenerate only if mostly immerse

TROLL HUNTER
Some trolls, more cunning than most, are not satisfied with
merely cating civilized beings but train.to_hunt them relent
lessly. These troll hunters are fearsome rangers who focus
on slaying and devouring humanoid prey

   

Umberhilk:

 

atic envi

 

in water

 

   

A troll hunter makes full use of its scent ability to
track its favored enemies and generally prefers to
hunt in darkness,

The troll hunter uses its limited repertoire of spells
to protect itself from damaging forms of energy and.
to immobilize enemies,
ical Ranger Spells Prepared (2; save DC 12 + spell
1st—entangle, resist energy

 

 

 

TROLLS AS CHARACTERS
Troll characters possess the following racial traits.
+12 Strength, +4 Dexterity, +12 Constitution,
Intelligence (minimum 3), -2 Wisdom, -4 Charisma.
Large size. -1 penalty to Armor Class, -1
penalty on attack rolls, 4 penalry on Hide checks, +4

 
