  
 

  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
    
    
  

   
   
  

 

Environment: Ethereal Plane
Organization: Solitary or gang (2-
Challenge Rating: 6

Treasure: Standard

Alignment: Always lawful evil
Advancement; 6-8 HD (Medium); 9-15 HD (Large
Level Adjustment: +4

 

This quasi-reptilian creature has four arms,_bright red scales, and dark.
penetrating eyes, It is not quite as tall. as. human.

Malevolent in the extreme, xills are known for brutality and total:
itarianism. They combinea healthy dose of evil with a keen love of
cruelty.

Some xills are barbaric and fierce; others are more civilized
creatures who rely on brutal order.

Axill stands 4to 5 feet tall and weighs about 100 pounds.

Xills speak Infernal

COMBAT

Xills are dangerous opponents,
attacking with all four limbs.
More civilized ones use
weapons, usually fighting
with two ata time so as to leave
two claws free for grab attacks.

Xills typically lie in wait on
the Ethereal Plane for suitable
prey to happen by, then
ambush it using their
planewalk ability. They make full
use of their Tumble skill in
combat: Usually, one or two
{distract physically powerful
enemies by attacking, then
assuming a defensive stance
while their fellows maneuver
to advantage

Implant (Ex): As a stan
dard action, a xill can lay eggs inside a paralyzed creature, The
young emerge about 90 days later, literally devouring the host
from inside. A remove disease spell rids a victim of the egg, as does a
DC 25 Heal check, If the check fails, the healer can try again, but
each attempt (successful or not) deals 1d4 points of damage to the
patient

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a xill must hit with one
or more claw attacks. It can then attempt to start.a grapple as a free
action without provoking an attack of opportunity. It receives a +2
bonus.on the grapple check for each claw that hits. If ir wins the
‘grapple check and maintains the hold in the next round, it auto-
matically bites the foe at that time, The bite deals no damage but
injects a paralyzing venom

Paralysis (Ex); Those bitten by a xill must succeed on a DC 14
Fortitude save or be paralyzed for 1d4 hours. The save DC is Con-
stitution-based,

Planewalk (Su): These planar travelers like to slip between the
jolds of space to attack enemies as though from.thin air. They can
cross from the Ethereal Plane with a. move action but take 2 rounds
to cross back, during which time they are immobile, As a.xill fades
away, it becomes harder to hit: Opponents have a 20% miss chance in
the first round and a 50% miss chance in the second. A xill can

jplanewalk with a willing or helpless creature.

XILL CHARACTERS
A gang of xlls is often led by a cleric. A xill cleric has access to two of
the following domains: Evil, Law, Strength, or Travel.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

     

SSS XUN

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

    

This bizarre creature has.a wide body made of a pebbly, stonelike mate-
rial._It has a.large, powerful mouth on top of its head, with three Jong
arms, tipped with sharp talons, symmetrically positioned around it
Between the arms are large. stone-lidded eyes that see in all directions. At
its base are three thick, short legs, each directly beneath an eye.

 

Xorns are scavengers from the Elemental Plane of Earth

Minor xorns are about 3 feet tall and wide and weigh about 120
pounds. Average xorns are about S feet tall and wide, weighing
about 600 pounds, Elder xorns are about 8 feer tall and wide and
weigh about 9,000 pounds

Xorns speak Common and Terran.

[COMBAT
Xorns do not attack fleshly beings except to defend themselves
or their property, since they cannot digest meat. Xorns are indif-
ferent.to creatures of the Material Plane—with the
sole exception of anyone carrying a significant
amount of precious metals or minerals,
which xorns.eat. They.can smell food up to 20
feet away. A xorn can be quite aggres
sive when seeking food, especially on
the Material Plane, where such suste:
nance is harder to find than it is on its
native plane
A xorn’s favorite mode of,
attack is to. waitjust beneath a
stone surface until a_foe
comes within reach, then
emerge suddenly. Groups of xorn:
often send one of their number to the sur:
face to negotiate for food while the remain
der position themselves for a surprise attack
All-Around Vision (Ex): A xorn's symmet
rically placed eyes allow it to look in any
direction, providing a +4 racial bonus on
Spot and Search checks. A.xorn cant be flanked.

Earth Glide (Ex): A xorn. can glide through stone, dirt, or
almost any other sort of earth except metal as easily as a fish swims
through water. Its burrowing leaves behind no tunnel or hole, nor
does it create any ripple or other signs of its presence. A move earth
spell cast on an area containing a burrowing xorn flings the xorn
back 30 feet, stunning the creature for t round unless it succeeds
ona DC 15 Fortitude save

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Medium Outsider (Extraplanar, Evil)

Hit Dice: 3d8+6 (19 hp

Initiative: +6

Speed: 40 ft. (8 squares), fly 60 ft, (good

Armor Class: 20 (+2 Dex, +8 natural), touch 12, flat-footed 18

Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+6

Attack: Bite +6 melee (1d8+4)

Full Attack: Bite +6 melee (1d8+4)

Space/Reach: 5 ft,/s ft

Special Attacks: Bay, trip

Special Qualities; Damage reduction 10/silver, darkvision 60 ft.,
flight, scent

Saves; Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +5

Abilities: Str 17, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 6,

Skills; Listen +11, Spot +11, Search +7
ing tracks

Feats; Improved Initiative, Track

Wis 14.Cha.10
» Survival +11 (+13 follow

  
