 
  
 

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 

   
  
 

      

Bay (Su): When a yeth hound howls or barks, all creatures
except other evil outsiders within a 300-foot spread must succeed
ona DC 11 Will save or become panicked for 2d4 rounds, This is a
sonic mind-affecting fear effect. Whether or not the save is suc-
cessful, an affected creature is immune to the same hound’ bay for.
24 hours. The save DC is Charisma-based.

Trip (Ex): A yeth hound that hits with its bite attack can
lattempt to trip the opponent (+3. check modifier) as a /
free action without making a touch attack or provok
ing an attack of opportunity. If the attempt fails, the
opponent cannot react to trip the yeth hound.
Flight (Su): A yeth hound can cease or
resume flight as a free action.
Skills: °A yeth hound has a +4
racial bonus on
Survival checks
when tracking
sby.scent.

 

Huge Magical Beast
Hit Dice: 12d10+36 (102 hp’
Initiative: +6
Speed: 20 ft. 4
squares); \
fly 60 ft

 

rage)

|Armor Class: 18°
(-2 size, +2 Dex
+8 natural),
touch 10,

,—flar-footed 16

Base Attack/Grapple:
$12/425

Attack: Bite +15 melee
+12 ranged touch (6d6

Full Attack: Bite +15 melee (2d8+5) and 2
melee

  

d8+5) or sonic lance

Trthak
laws +13
1d6+2); or sonic lance +12 ranged touch (6dé
pace/Reach: 15 ft./10 ft.
Special Attacks: Sonic lance, explosion
Special Qualities: Blindsight 120 ff,, immunities, vulnerability

to sonic

Saves: Fort +11, Ref +10, Will +5
Abilities: Str 20, Dex 14, Con 17,
Skills; Listen +12, Move Silently +10
Feats: Endurance, Flyby Attack, Improved Initiative,
Multiattack, Snatch
vironment: Temperate mountains
Organization: Solitary or clutch (2-4)
Challenge Rating: 9
Treasure: None
Alignment: Often neutral
Advancement: 13-16 HD (Huge); 17-36 H
Level Adjustment:

 

 

 

 

Int 7, Wis 13, Cha 11

 

  

  

D (Gargantuan,

This creature resembles an eyeless, yellow-green flying reptile with fleshy
wings, a long tail, and a large fin on its back. It has single. hamnlike.protru-
sion on its crocodilian head.

A strange predator from desolate wastelands, the yrthak terrorizes

|the area it inhabits as an always hungry dragon might.

| _Ayyrthak is blind. It senses sound and movement by means of a

{special organ on its long tongue. It emits powerfully focused

beams of sound from the protrusion on its head. The creature is a

yellowish-green color, with the wings and fin being more yellow
and the head and body more green. The teeth are yellow

   

  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

     

Yrthaks are crafty and devious. They are omnivorous but prefer
meat.An yrthak keeps a nest high in its isolated mountain lairand
may. travel for days in search of food, returning only infrequently.
Yrthaks are sometimes seen swooping 100 feet or more above the
ground, attempting to sense prey.

A yrthak is about 20 feet long, with a wingspan of 40
feet. It weighs about 5,000 pounds.
Despite their intelligence, yrthaks do not speak.

COMBAT
A yrthak prefers ro attack from_the air, strafing
the ground with sonic atracks or snatching up
and dropping prey (eventually landing to
devour the flattened mess
Sonic Lance (Su): Once every
2 rounds, a yrthak can
focus sonic. energy
in a ray up to 60
feet long. This is a
ranged touch at-
tack that deals
6d6_points_of
damage to a single
harget.
Explosion (Su): A
yrthak can fire its
sonic lance at

 

the ground, a large
rock, a stone wall, or
the like to create an
explosion of shattered
stone. This attack deals 2d6 points of piercing
damage to all within 10 feet of the effect's center

This counts as a use of the sonic lance attack and thus is usable
only once every 2 rounds, and. never.on the round following a
sonic lance attack.

Blindsight (Ex); A yrthak can ascertain all foes within 120 feet.
Beyond that range it is considered blinded. Yrthaks are invulnera-
ble to gaze attacks, visual effects of spells such as illusions, and
other attack forms that rely.on sight

A yrthak whose sense of hearing is impaired is
blinded, treating all targets as having total concealment.

Immunities: Yrthaks have immunity to gaze attacks, visual
fects, illusions, and other attack forms that rely on sight
Skills: Yrthaks have a +4 racial bonus on Listen checks.

 

ffectively

 

 

 

 

The yuan-tiare descended from humans whose bloodlines have
been mingled with those of snakes. Their evilness, cunning, and
ruthlessness are legendary

Yuan-ti constantly scheme to advance their own dark agendas
They are calculating and suave enough to form alliances with
other evil creatures when necessary, but they always pur their own
interests first,

 

 

All yuan-ti possess some snakelike features, and many. have
snake body parts.
Yuan-ti speak their own language, plus Common, Draconic, and |

Abyssal.
COMBAT

\Yuan-ti are geniuses and fight as such. They plan elaborate traps
and utilize their surroundings superbly in combat, preferring
