 

Environment: Warm forests

Organization: Solitary, pair, gang (3-4), troupe (2-13 pure:
bloods, 2-5 halfbloods, and 2-4 abominations), or tribe
20-160 purebloods, 10-80 halfbleods, and 10-40 abomins:

 

 

tions
Challenge Rating: 2
Treasure: Double standard
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil
Advancement: By character class
Level Adjustment: +7

 

This creature looks like a big serpent, except that its eyes betray a baleful
intelligence and it has two burly, humanoid arms

Yuan-ti abominations are monstrous snakes with humanlike arms.
The snakelike features of an abomination may reflect any of a vari
ety of venomous snakes, so.an. abomination may have a black
mambass glossy scales or a viper's wedge-shaped head. These fea
tures are usually consistent within a single troupe of yuan-ti, and.
often mark a troupe's status within a tribe.

A yuan-ti abomination is 8 to 12 feet long and weighs 200 to 300
pounds

 

Ca:

 

Abominations are the masterminds of yuan-ti society, and urge
their lesser kin into battle from the rear. While their
underlings fight, the abominations watch the pro-
ceedings carefully, identifying the most danger
ous foes and their most worrisome abilities, then.
try to neutralize those enemies with their exten:
sive spell-like and psionic abilities

Aversion (Sp): A yuan-ti abomination.can
psionically create a compulsion effect targeting
one creature within 30 feet. The target. must suc:
ceed.on.a DC 22 Will save or gain an av
snakes for 10 minutes. Affected creatures must
stay at least 20 feet away from any snake or yuan-
ti, alive or dead; if already within 20 feet, they
move away, A subject unable to move away, or
one attacked by snakes or yuan-ti, is overcome
with revulsion, This revulsion reduces the
creature's Dexterity score by +
points until the effect wears off
or the subject _is_no longer
within 20 feet of a.snake or
yuan-ti, This ability is other
wise similar to antipathy as the
spell (caster level 16th), The
save DC is Charisma-based.

Constrict (Ex): An abomi
nation deals 1d6+6 points of
damage with a successful
grapple check.

Improved Grab (Ex): To
use this ability, an abomina-
tion must hit a Large or

 

 

     

sion to

 

 

 

smaller creature with its
bite attack, It can then at
tempt to start a grapple as a
free action without provoking
an attack of opportunity, If it
iwins the grapple check, it
establishes a hold and can
constrict.

Poison (Ex): Injury, Forti
tude DC 17, initial and secondary damage 1d6
Con. The save DC is Constitution-based.

 

  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

Produce Acid (Sp): An abomination has the psionic ability.ro
exude acid from its body, dealing 3d6 points of acid damage to the
next creature it touches, including a creature hit by its bite attack.
If the yuan-ti is grappling, constricting, or pinning a foe when it
uses this power, its grasp deals $6 points of acid damage. The acid
becomes inert when it leaves the yuan-ti’s body, and the yuan-ti is
immune to its effects.

Spell-Like Abilities: Atwill—animal trance (DC.16), entangle
DC 15); 3/day—deeper darkness, neutnalize poison (DC 18), s stion
DC 17); 1/day—baleful polymorph (DC 19; into snake form only),
jear (DC 18). Caster level 10th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.

Chameleon Power (Sp): A yuan-ti abomination.can psionically
change the coloration of itself and its equipment.to match its sut
roundings, granting it a +10 circumstance bonus on Hide checks

Skills: A yuan-ti abomination can always. choose to take 10.0na
Climb checks, even if rushed or threatened,

A yuan-ti abomination has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check
to perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always
choose to take 10.0n.a Swim check, even if distracted or endan:
gered. It can use the run action while swimming, provided it
swims in a straigh

‘Yuan-ti abominations using chameleon power gain a +10 circum:
stance bonus on Hide checks,

 

 

 

 

   

fi

   

  

line,

 

 

Zombies are corpses reanimated through dark and sinister magic:
These mindless automatons shamble about, doing their creator’.
bidding without fear or hesitation

Zombies are not pleasant to look upon

Drawn from their graves, half decayed and
partially consumed by worms, they. wear
the tattered remains of their burial
clothes. A rank odor of death hangs heavy

in the air around them.

Because of their utter lack of intelligence,
the instructions given to.a.newly created
zombie must be very simple, such as "Kill
anyone who enters this room

CREATING A ZOMBIE
Zombie” is an acquired template

that can be added to any corpo
real creature (other than an
undead) that has a skeletal system (referred to
hereafter as the base creature

Size and Type: The creature's type changes
to undead. Ir retains any subtypes except
alignment subtypes (such as good) and sub-
types that indicare kind (such as goblinoid
or reptilian), It does not gain the aug:
mented subtype. It uses all the base crea
ture’s statistics and special abilities
except as noted here

Hit Dice: Drop any Hit Dice from
class levels (to a minimum of 1),
double the number of Hit Dice left,
and raise them to di2s. If the base

creature has more than 10 Hit
Dice (not counting those gained
with experience), it can't be
made into.a zombie with the
animate dead spell
peed: If the base creature
can fly, its maneuverability rating
drops to clumsy.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
