If you choose to equip a monster.with gear, use its ECL as its
character level for purposes of determining how much equipment
it can purchase. Generally, only monsters with an Advancement
entry of “By character class” receive NPC gear, other creatures add-

ing character levels should be treated as monsters of the appropri-|

ate CR and assigned treasure, not equipment.
Feat Acquisition and Ability Score Increases: A monsters.
total Hit Dice, not its ECL, govern its acquisition of feats and abil-

ity score increases. For example, a 1st-level minotaur barbarian has,

a.total of 7 HD. It has three feats (for its 1st, 3rd, and 6th HD).
When it gains 2nd level as a barbarian, it becomes a creature of 8
\ Hit Dice and improves one.ability score by 1 point. When it adds
its 3rd level of barbarian, the minotaur becomes a creature of 9 Hit
Dice and gains its fourth feat.

As its Hit Dice increase, a creature's attack bonuses and saving |
throw modifiers might improve. It gains more feats and skills, |

depending on its type, as shown on Table 4-1

Saving throw bonuses are given on Table 3-1; Base Save and|
Base Attack Bonuses, page 22 of the Player's Handbook. A “good”
saving throw uses the higher of the listed values

Note that if a creature acquires a character class, it improves ac-
cording to its class, not its type

See the sidebar on page 292 for an example of how to adjust the
statistics for a creature whose Hit Dice have been increased.

SIZE INCREASES

|Accteature may become larger when its Hit Dice are increased (the
[new size is noted parenthetically in the monster's Advancement
entry)

A size increase affects any special ability the creature has that is
affected by size, such as improved grab, Increased size also affects
a creature’ ability scores, AC, attack bonuses, and damage values
as indicated on Tables 4~2 and 4-3

TaBLe 4-2; CHANGES TO STATISTICS BY SIZE

Natural AC/
Old Size* —_ New Size Str Dex Con Armor Attack |
Fine Diminutive Same 2 Same Same “4
Diminutive Tiny +2 -2 Same Same -2
Tiny Small +4 2 Same Same -
Small Medium. +4. =2 +2 Same -1
Medium — Large +8 2 +4 2 4
Large Huge +8 -2 +4 +3 4
Huge Gargantuan +8 Same +4 +4 =
Gargantuan_Colossal +8. Same_+4 +5 4

j*-Repeat the adjustment if the creature moves up more than one size.
For example, if a creature advances. from Medium to Huge size, it
gains +16 to Strength, 4 to Dexterity, and ~2 to attack bonus and
Armor Class.

TABLE 4~3: INCREASED DAMAGE By Size

Old Damage (Each)* New Damage
12 1d3
143 144
1d4 1d6
1d6 18.
148 2d6
1410. 208
246 3d6
208. 308

(Repeat the adjustment if the creature moves up more than one size
category, For example, if a Medium creature with two claw attacks
dealing 14 points of damage each advances from Medium to

Huge, the damage dealt by each of its claw attacks increases to 1d8,_,

 

Certain creatures are created by adding a template to an existing |
creature. A templated creature can represent a freak of nature, the |

individual creation of a single experimenter, or the first genera-
Ltion of offspring from parents of different species.

ACQUIRED AND INHERITED TEMPLATES

Some templates can be added to creatures anytime. A monster or

character may become.a ghost after death, A spellcaster of at least.,

11th level can become.a lich. Those with S or more HD killed by }
vampires may become vampires. Templates such as these are
referred to as acquired remplates, indicating that the creature did
not always have the attributes of the template. }
Other.templates, known as inherited templates, are part of a|
creature from the beginning of its existence. Examples include
the celestial, fiendish, half-celestial, half-dragon, and half-fiend
templates—all assume the creature was born with the template.
Its possible fora certain kind of template to be of either type.,

{The lycanthrope template, for instance, is inherited for a creature

that was born with the affliction. It.can also be acquired by a.crea-
ture that is bitten by a natural lycanthrope.

READING A TEMPLATE

A templates description provides a set of instructions for altering
an existing creature, known as the base creature.

The changes that a template might cause to.each line of acteature'’s |
statistics block are discussed below. Generally, if a. template does not |
cause a change to.a certain statistic, that entry is missing from the,
template description, For clariry, the entry for a statistic or attribute
that is not changed is sometimes given as “Same as the base creature.”

Size and Type: Templates often change a creature's type, and.
may change the creature's size.

Ifa template changes the base creature's type, the creature also!
acquires the augmented subtype (see page 306) unless the tem-
plate description indicates otherwise. The augmented subtype is
always paired with the creature’ original type. For example, a uni-
corn with the half-celestial template is an outsider with the aug-
mented magical beast subtype. Unless a template indicates other-
wise, the new creature has the traits of the new type but the
features of the original type. The example half-celestial unicorn
has outsider traits (darkvision.out to 60 feet, no soul) and magical
beast features (10-sided Hit Dice, base attack bonus equal to total
Hit Dice, good Fortitude and Reflex saves, and so on),

Ifa template changes a creature's size, use Table 4-2 to calculate
changes to natural armor, Armor Class, attack rolls, and grapple bonus.

Hit Dice and Hit Points: Most templates do not change the
number of Hir Dice a monster has, bur some do.

Some templates change the size of a creature's Hit Dice (usually
by changing the creature type). A few templates change previ-
ously acquired Hit Dice, and continue to change Hit Dice gained
with class levels, but most templates that change Hit Dice change
only_the creature's original HD and leave class Hit Dice
unchanged.

Ifthe Hit Dice entry in a template description is missing, Hit
Dice and hit points do not change unless the creature's Constitu-
tion modifier changes |

Initiative: Ifa template changes the monster's Dexterity, or ifit
adds or removes the Improved Initiative feat, this entry changes. |

Speed: If a template modifies a creature's speed, the template
states how that happens. More commonly, a template adds a new.)
movement mode, such as.afly speed. 1

Armor Class; Ifa template changes the creature's size, see Table |
4-2.to determine its new Armor Class and to see whether its natu-

lralarmor changes. In some cases, such as with the ghost template,
ithe method of determining Armor Class changes radically; the

template description explains how to adjust the creature's AC

 
