Wisdom. A template may, however, state thata monster has a dif-

ferent “good” saving throw—see Table 41.
Abilities: If a template changes one or more ability scores,
these changes are noted here.

Skills: As with attacks, changing a monster's type does not,

always change its skill points. Most templates don't change the

number of Hit Dice a creature has, so you dont need to adjust,
|skills in that case unless the key abilities for those skills have,
changed, or the template gives a bonus.on one or more skills, of
unless the template gives a feat that. provides a bonus on.a skill.

check.
Some templates change how skill points are determined, but
‘this change usually only affects skill points gained after the tem-
plate is applied. Treat skills listed in the base creature's description
as class skills, as well as any-new skills provided by the template.
Feats: Since most templates do not change the number of Hit
\Dicea creature has, a.template will not change the number of feats

the creature has. Some templates grant one or more bonus feats.

Environment: Usually the same as the base creature.

Organization: Usually the same as the base creature.

Challenge Rating: Most templates increase the creature's
Challenge Rating. A template might provide a modifier to be
added to the base creature's CR, or it might specify a range of mod-
ifiers depending on the base creature's original Hit Dice or CR.

Treasure: Usually the same as the base creature.

Alignment: Usually the same as the base creature, unless the
template is associated with a certain alignment (such as the celes-
tial and fiendish templates, and any.template that changes a crea-
ture’s type to undead).

Advancement: Usually the same as the base creature.

Level Adjustment: This entry is a modifier to the base crea-
ture’s level adjustment. Any level adjustment.is meaningless
unless the creature retains a high enough Intelligence (minimum
3).to gain class levels after applying the template.

ADDING A TEMPLATE, STEP-BY-STEP.
All.the templates presented in this book include at least one
example of the template applied ro a creature. To apply a.template,
toa creature yourself, follow the steps outlined below.

If the template changes the base creature's size, use Table 4-2 10]
determine changes to natural armor, Armor Class, and attack rolls.
Check the text of the template to see if you apply size modifiers to
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution. The template's Abilities
entry may-already account for those adjustments.

Add all ability score modifiers, from size and froth the Abilities
entry, to the base creature's ability scores.

When you know the new Constitution modifier and any
change to. Hit Die size, recalculate.the templated monster's hit

points. See Hit Dice and Hit Points, above.

The new Constitution modifier also modifies the creature's Forti-
rude saving throw modifier and any skill modifier for Concentration
checks. Check for Great Fortitude or any other feat that affects the
Fortitude saving throw modifier and apply the change now,

When you know the new Dexterity modifier, recalculate the
creature's modifier on initiative checks and Armor Class. Apply
modifiers for size and natural armor at this time. Check for
Improved Initiative and any other feat that affects Initiative and
apply the change now.

Check to see if either the base creature or. the templated crea-

ture uses Weapon Finesse swith one or more of its attacks. If it does,
use the new. Dexterity modifier to recalculate the attack bonus.
|Apply.any size modifiers at the same time.

|The new Dexterity modifier also modifies the Reflex saving

{throw modifier and the modifiers of any_skills with Dexterity. as
the key ability. Check for Lightning Reflexes or any other feat that
affects the Reflex saving throw modifier and apply the change now.

When you know the new Strength modifier, check to see if

either the base creature or the templated creature has Weapon,
Finesse. For all attacks that do not use Weapon Finesse, use the |
new.Surength modifier to recalculate attack bonus, Apply any.size|
modifiers at the.same_time.

The new Strength modifier affects damage and any modifiers’

[for skills with Strength as the key ability.
|. When you know the new Intelligence modifier, recalculate
skill modifiers for any. skills that use Intelligence asthe key ability.

When you know. the new Wisdom modifier, recalculate the,

.Will saving throw modifier and the modifiers for any skills that.
use Wisdom as the key ability. Check for Iron Will or any.other}
feat that affects the Will saving throw modifier. and apply the
change now.

For all special abilities of the base creature that remain, recaleu- ,
late saving throw DCs (the template description tells how to.cal-|
culate the DCs for any special abilities the template provides). The

(formula for most save DCs is 10 + 1/2 the crearure’s Hit Dice +the
{relevant ability score modifier of the creature using the ability.
\Typically, each ability is associated with certain kinds of abilities, .
as follows.

Strength: Any application of force, crushing, binding, or.con-)
striction.

Dexterity: Movement, movement restrictions, hitting with a
missile, entanglement.

Constitution: Almost anything that comes from the creature's
body, including poison attacks and breath weapons.

Intelligence: Ilusion effects.

Wisdom: Mental or perception effects (except charms.and.com-}
pulsions; see Charisma).

Charisma: A creature's Charisma modifier affects the save DC|
for any spell-like abilities it has. Use Charisma for anything pit-|
ting the creature’ will against an opponent, such as gaze attacks, |
charms, compulsions,and energy drain effects. Also use Charisma
for any DC that normally would be based on an ability score. the
creature does not have. For example, undead have no Constitution
score, so any poison attack an undead creature has. would use
Charisma to determine the save DC

Add any new special abilities granted by the template.

Add any skill bonuses given by the template.

Add any feats given by the template that are not already taken
into account.

Update the Challenge Rating as instructed by the template.

Adding More Than.One Template
In theory, there's no limit to the number of templates you can add
to a creature. To.add more than one template, just apply each tem-
plate one ata time. Always apply inherited templates before apply-
ing acquired templates. Whenever you add multiple templates, pay
attention to the creature's type—you may add a template that
makes the creature ineligible for other templates you might want
toadd. For example, a vampire cannot become a lich and vice versa,

ADVANCED MONSTER

When youadd higher ability scores, class levels, more Hit Dice, or
a template to a monster, you make it a more challenging opponent
for your players.

When adding class levels to a crearure with 1 or less HOD, you,
advance the creature like a character. Otherwise, uuse the following |
guidelines. =

ADDING CLASS LEVELS
LI you are advancing a monster by adding player character class
levels, decide if the class levels directly improve the monster's
existing capabilities.

 
