    
   
   
   
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
 

 
    

 

When adding class levels to a creature, you should give it typi-
cal ability scores appropriate for that class. Most creatures in this
book are built using the standard array.of ability scores: 11,11, 11,
10, 10, 10, adjusted by racial modifiers. If you give a creature a PC
class, such as fighter or druid, use the elite array of ability scores |
before racial adjustments:15, 14, 13, 12,10, 8, For example, the |
troll hunter (in the Troll entry) is a ranger and uses the elite array,

iwhich is then modified by. the troll’s racial adjustments (Str+12,,
Dex +4, Con-+12, Int ~4, Wis -2, Cha —4), Creatures with NPC)
classes, such as adept or warrior, use the nonelite array of 13,.12,)
14, 10, 9, 8. The orc warrior presented in this book is an example.
Estimating CR: Assigning a Challenge Rating is a subjective
,judgment, not an exact science—meaning that you have control
over what the CR of an monster with class levels should be. If you
find a class combination that improves a monster's capabilities sig-
nificantly—or not as significantly as this guideline supposes—
jyou should modify its CR as seems logical. Err on the side of over-
jestimating: If a monster has a higher Challenge Rating than it}
jdeserves, it's less likely to kill off an entire party than if you had |
ferred in the other direction,

Associated Class Levels
Class levels that increase a monster's existing strengths are known
as associated class levels. Each associated class level a monster has
increases its CR by 1.

Barbarian, fighter, paladin, and ranger are associated classes for
ja.creature that relies on its fighting ability, For example, if you add
jalevel of fighter, barbarian, ranger, or paladin toa frost giant, this
idirectly improves the monster's existing strengths and is therefore

anassociated class level.

Rogue and ranger are associated classes fora creature that relies on
\stealth to surprise its foes, or on skill use to give itself an advantage.
,The babau demon, for example, is “sneaky and sly" and has sneak
jattack as a special abiliry, Rogue is an associated class for this creature.

A spellcasting class is.an associated class for a creature that al-
ready has the ability to cast spells as a character of the class in ques-
tion, since the monster's levels in the spellcasting class stack with
its innate spellcasting ability. A rakshasa, for example, casts spells!
as a 7th-level sorcerer. If it picks up a level of sorcerer, it casts |
spells as an 8th-level sorcerer.

Nonassociated Class Levels
If you add a class level thar doesn't directly play to a creature's
strength (such as adding a sorcerer level to a frost giant), the class
level is considered nonassociated, and things get a little more
complicated. Adding a nonassociated class level to.a monster
increases its CR by 1/2 per level until one of its nonassociated
class levels equals its original Hit Dice. Atthat point, each addi-
itional level of the same class or a similar one is considered associ-
sated and increases the monster's CR by 1.

For example, frost giants have 14 HD, After you add 14 levels of
sorcerer to a frost giant (and +7 to its CR), any further sorcerer
class levels are considered associated. Adding one more sorcerer
level increases this particular frost giant's CR by 1

Levels in NPC classes are.always treated as nonassociared.

ADDING HIT DICE

When you improve a monster by adding Hit Dice, use Table 4410

determine the effect on the creature's CR. Keep in mind thar many

-monsters that advance by adding Hit Dice also increase in size. Do

snot stack this CR increase with any.increase from class levels.
| In general, once you've doubled a creature's CR, you should.
closely watch any additional increases in its abilities, Adding Hit
| Dice to a creature improves several of its abilities, and radical in-
creases might not follow this progression indefinitely. Compare
the monster's improved attack bonus, saving throw bonuses, and |

    

  

TaBLe 44; IMPROVED MONSTER CR INCREASE

Creature’s Original Type CR Increase
Aberration, construct, elemental, fey, giant,

humanoid, ooze, plant, undead, vermin +1 per4 HD added
Animal, magical beast, monstrous humanoid _+1 per 3 HD added
Dragon, outsider, nonassociated class levels +1 per 2 HD or

2 levels added

Directly associated class levels +1 per. level added
Other Modifiers:
Size increased to Large or larger +1to CR
Monster's ability scores based on elite array*___ +1 to CR

Monster possesses special attacks or qualities
that significantly improve combat effectiveness +2 to CR
Monster possesses special attacks or qualities that.

improve combat effectiveness in a minor way. +1. to CR
Template added + template
CR modifier

* Do not apply this increase if you advance a monster by class levels.
|_ (Monsters advanced by class levels are assumed to use the elite array).

‘any DCs of its special abilities from the HD increase to typical
characters of the appropriate level and adjust the CR accordingly.

INCREASING SIZE
Generally, increasing a monster's size increases its combat effec-
tiveness. Large creatures gain increased Strength, reach, and other
benefits, Apply this modifier if you increase.a creature beyond |
{Medium and in conjunction with any other increases.
Be careful, though. Monsters that benefit froma smaller size.
may actually lose effectiveness because of a size increase.A grig,
for example, gains AC and attack bonuses for being Tiny, and,
reduced Dexterity from a.size increase actually hurts its Weapon
Finesse capability. Monsters that dontt benefit from size increases.
don't advance in that manner for this reason.

ADDING SPECIAL ABILITIES

You can add any sort of spell-like, supernatural, or extraordinary
ability to a creature. As with a class level, you should determine
how much, or how little, this ability adds to the creature's existing
repertoire. A suite of abilities that work together should be treated
asa single modifier for this purpose, If the ability (or combination
of abilities) significantly increases.the monster's combat effective-
ness, increase its CR by. 2. Minor abilities increase the creature's
CR by.1.and truly trivial abilities may not increase CR atall. If the
special abilities a monster gains are not tied to a class or Hit Die
increase, this CR increase stacks.

A significant special attack is one that stands a good chance of
incapacitating or crippling a character in one round; the troll’s
rend ability, while it is dangerous, does not make it significantly
more dangerous than it already is, but an umber hulk’s confusing
gaze.can take characters out of the fight every round. A significant
special quality is. one that seriously diminishes the monster's vul-
nerability to common attacks, such as spell resistance or an
undead creature's immunities. Do not add this factor twice if a
monster has both special attacks and special qualities.

Make sure to “scale” your evaluation of these abilities by the
monster's current CR. Giving a CR 15 monster built for melee
combat the ability to.cast bull’s strength once per day is pretty triv-
ial, taken all by itself. It probably wouldn't bump the CR arall,orat,
best, by 1. 1f you give a melee combat monster of. CR 1 the same

sability, however, thar's fairly significant: Increase. the CR by 2.

Adding lots of abilities is always problematic. Monsters usually.

only spend a short period of time “on screen’ in any. adventure. If
| you give a monster more special abilities than it.can reliably use in
ja single encounter, you may just be increasing complexity for no
jreal improvement.
