CHAPTER 5: -
MAKING MONSTERS

All the really great monsters, in the D&D game and in literature,
have one thing in. common—you can sum.up what they're all,
about in just afew words. That's the first and most essential item in}
lany monster recipe—a solid and fairly simple statement of what,
the monster is all about, }

2

Before you begin assigning statistics and other particulars, take some
time to think about the basic nature, or concept, of your monster.
Think about the following when working on your concept:
—What do you expect the creature to do in the game? (Is ita
friend or-a foe.of the PCs? Does it depend primarily on physical
abilities or mental abilities? Is it meant to be encountered once, or}
lon a recurring basis?)

—Where does it live? (A monster that lives underground may.,
have characteristics not shared by monsters that inhabit the
wilderness, and vice versa.)

—How does it live? (Is it a predator that relies on its own
strength and speed, or is it intelligent enough to get other crea-
tures to do its bidding?)

—Does it have any particular enemies or favorite prey?

After you have an idea of what your monster is about, you'll
\have a much easier time making your creature's type, ability
iscores, feats, skills, and special powers fit your concept. It's okay to
jmodel your new monster on a creature that's already in the
game—you'll have less work to do, and your monster will be easier
\to.use. You'll find that a short menu of special abilities tightly
| wedded to your concept makes the best monster, and it makes the
[monster much easier to use.

DETERMINING THE MONSTER’S TYPE
Once you have your monster's concept figured out, it's time to.
pick a creature type that fits the concept. Use the following infor-.
mation.to determine the most appropriate type for your monster,
(perhaps refining your concept as you go),

Aberration: An aberration has a bizarre anatomy, strange abilities,
an alien mindset, or any. combination of the three. This type works,
best for creatures that are just plain weird. Aberrations have average
combat ability and hit points, but generally poor saving throws.

If you want your aberration to be a tough customier in combat,
you'll need to give it some sort of special attack ability. For ex-
ample, a.carrion crawler has eight paralyzing tentacle attacks,
while an umber hulk has a gaze that.causes confusion.

Animal: An animal is a living, nonhuman creature, usually a

ivertebrate with no magical abilities and no innate capacity for lan-
guage or culture. Animals have average combat ability, average hit
points, and average saving throws.

If your creature ever lived on Earth, and it's not an insect of
some kind, it's probably an animal.

Construct; A construct is an animated object or artificially
constructed creature. Constructs have average combat ability and
hit points, and very poor saving throws, but they have immunity
to many attack forms,

‘Use this type for any creature that was built or made rather than

.born or hatched.

Dragon: A dragon is areptilelike creature, usually winged, with
|magical or unusual abilities, This type is exceptionally powerful,
‘combining good combat ability, hit points, and saving throws

Use the dragon type for variations on the basic dragon design (a
flying reprile with supernatural abilities), If your creature is essen-
tially just a flying reprile (such as a pterodactyl), the animal or |
magical beast type may be more suitable,

Elemental: An elemental is a being composed of one.of the,
four classical elements: air, earth, fire, or water. Elementals have}
average combat ability and hit points and poor saving throws, but)
have immunity.to some forms of attack.

,_ Use the elemental type fora creature from the elemental planes
{that is more element than_creature. If your creature is a native of
the elemental planes but more like a living creature than the incar-
nation of an element, you should probably use the outsider type.

Fey: A fey is a creature with supernatural abilities and connec-,
itions to nature or to. some other force or place. Fey are usually.
human-shaped. Fey have poor combat ability and hit points and.
average saving throws. If you want to create a.tough fey, you will
need to assign formidable physical ability scores and special at-
tacks or defenses to make the creature survivable. +

Fey. creatures include fairies and many sylvan creatures. They.
could also include evil creatures such as the sidhe and unseelie

jfairies.

Giant: A giant is a humanoid-shaped creature of great strength,
\usually of at least Large size. Giants have average combat ability,

Jand hit points, and poor saving throws, bur their size and physical
ability scores usually make them very dangerous combatants.

If your creature is humanoid-shaped and at least.as big.as an
ogre, it’s probably a giant, especially if it doesn't have a lot of spe-
cial abilities.

Humanoid: A humanoid usually has two.arms, two legs, and
one head, ora humanlike torso, arms, anda head. Humanoids have
few or no supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but most canj

jspeak and usually have well-developed societies. They. usually are)
Small or Medium. Every humanoid creature also_has.a sina
such as elf, goblinoid, or reptilian.

Humanoids with 1 Hit Die exchange the features of their human: |
oid Hit Die for the class features of a PC or NPC class. Humanoids |
of this sort are presented as ist-level warriors, which means that)
they have average combat ability and poor saving throws.

Humanoids with more than 1 Hit Die (for example, gnolls and
bugbears) are the only humanoids who make use of the features of
the humanoid type. Humanoids have average combat ability and
hit points, but poor saving throws.

Magical Beast: A magical beast is similar to. an animal but can
have an Intelligence score higher than 2. Magical beasts usually
have supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but sometimes are
merely bizarre in appearance.or habits. Magical beasts have good
combat ability and hit points, and average saving throws.

If your creature resembles an animal but is intelligent or has
supernatural or spell-like abilities, it’s probably a magical beast.
You can.also_use.this type for animallike creatures that combine
the features of two or more animals, or are similar to animals but
just tougher.

Monstrous Humanoid: Monstrous humanoids are similar to
humanoids, bur with monstrous or animalistic features. They,
often have magical abilities.as.wvell. Monstrous humanoids have
good combat ability and average hit points and saving throws.

Use.this type for just about anything that combines elements of
human and animal or monster anatomy, unless it is weird enough
to.qualify as.an aberration. Monstrous humanoids might also
include otherwise humanoid creatures with odd vulnerabilities or
abilities you wouldnt normally find in a humanoid,

Ooze: An ooze is an.amorphous or mutable creature, usually,
mindless, Oozes have average combat ability, good hit points, and |
very poor saving throws, but they have immunity.to many forms)

lof attack.

If your creature has a bizarre physiology that takes the form ofa
mindless, amorphous blob, it’s an ooze. Otherwise, it’s probably an}
aberration.

Outsider; An outsider is at least partially composed of the

jessence (but.not necessarily the material) of some plane other
than the Material Plane. Some creatures start out as some other

 
