    

  

state of spiritual existence. Outsiders have good combat ability,
average hit points, and good saving throws.

If your creature comes from another plane and it’: not an ele-
mental, it an outsider.

type and become outsiders when they attain.a higher (or lower).

Plant: This type comprises vegetable creatures. Note that regu-/

lar plants, such as one finds growing in gardens and fields, lack

immunity to many forms of attack.

Undead: Undead are once-living creatures animated by spiri-
tual or supernatural forces. Undead have poor combat ability, aver-
age hit points, and poor saving throws, but have immunity to
many forms of attack. If you want to create an undead creature
with formidable combat abilities, you will need to give it high
‘Strength or Dexterity, or provide it with dangerous special attacks
jand defenses.

arcane process), If the creature has energy drain or ability drain
capability, it is more likely undead than a construct.

Vermin: This type includes insects, arachnids, other arthro-
pods, worms, and similar invertebrates. Vermin have average
combat ability and hit points and poor saving throws, but are often
mindless and therefore have immunity to mind-affecting effects

\(charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).

Use this type for giant bugs and other mindless invertebrates, If
your creature has an Intelligence score and you've considered the
yermin type, its probably a magical beast or an aberration instead.

TARGET CHALLENGE RATING
Before you get too far into designing your monster,.you should
decide about how tough a monster youre trying to build by picking
a.target CR. Challenge rating measures the level of characters the
monster will be best suited to oppose. As you assign the monster's
Hit Dice, Armor Class, attack bonus, special attacks, save DCs, and
other characteristics, you will want to keep your target CR in mind.
For example, if you want.to create a monster to challenge a)
party of 2nd-level characters, you probably don't want to create.a
monster with an Armor Class of 25..A strong and capable 2nd-
evel fighter might have an attack bonus of +6 or so, which means
thar the best character in the party will hit your monster only on a
natural 19 or 20. The clerics, rogues, and other characters in the
party will only hit on a natural 20.
1f yoware interested in creating your own monsters for a partic-
ular game or campaign, you have an advantage: You know exactly
what characters your monsters will face. You can examine your
players’ character sheets and check the attack bonus, Armor Class,
and saving throws of the characters you expect your monster to
Hight. If you don‘ want.o tailor your monster to a particular group
of characters, you can use. the NPC tables in Chapter 4.of the Dun-
geon Master’s Guide to see how. characters of a level equal to your
target CR can handle different monster attacks and defenses.

Taste S—1: Creature Size, ABiLiTY Scores, AND DAMAGE

|Wwisdom and Charisma scores and.thus are not creatures, but!
Jobjects, even though they are alive. Plant creatures have average
combat ability and hit points and poor saving throws, but have |

Ifit's dead, but still kicking, it's undead (although it could be al
jconstruct if it’s just a collection of parts animated through an,

   

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

As you proceed through the steps of creating your monster, use|
your target. CR to guide your decisions about what value to assign. |
Your final monster design may or may not match the target CR,|
but you will be much less likely to create a monster that never

ymisses or cant be hit.

All the other elements of the monster recipe serve to put your con-
cept into words and numbers so you can use the monster in play.
The steps below are not presented in the same order as a.monster
entry, because some items that appear late in a monster entry. (for

example, the monster's ability scores) affect decisions. you might
make about items that precede them.

CREATURE TYPE

A creature's type defines what the creature is like and what itcan
{doin the much the same way asa character's class defines the char-
Jacter’s abilities. A creature's type determines the size of its Hit Dice,
jand how magic affects the creature; for example, the hold animal

spell affects only creatures of the animal type.

Type, along with size, helps determine the monster's ability
scores and damage values. Consider your concept for the monster,
and choose the type that best matches that concept. Full descrip-
tions of each type's features and traits appear in Chapter 7: Glossary.

SIZE 1
A creature's size.affects its combat abilities. in numerous sways, In)
general, the bigger the creature, the nastier itis, Whenassigning a
size to your monster, think about your monster concept. Does.the.
creature need to be really strong and tough? Does it have a.vora-|
cious appetite? If so, it should be big. Is the creature sneaky, agile,
and easy to overlook? If so, it should be smaller.

It's important to remember that a creature's total volume is what
determines its size, If a creature is significantly denser or less
dense than a regular animal, then its weight is a poor indicator of
size. For example, the ghost of a human weighs nothing but is size
Medium.

A creature's size should influence its ability scores and its
number of Hit Dice. Table 5—1 shows suggested ability scores, Hit
Dice, and natural weapon damage for monsters of various sizes.
These are guidelines, not hard-and-fast requirements. Many crea-
tures in this book do not adhere to the guidelines on the table.

The column headers on Table 5-1 are defined below.

Minimum CR: This column gives the minimum target CR you
should assign to a creature of this size. This reflects the size-based
suggestions for number of HD, Strength, and damage capability,
For example, if you are creating a Gargantuan creature, you should
plan ona final CR of 6 or higher.

Str, Dex, Con: These numbers are typical values for a creature
of the indicated size. The creature's type influences which end of
the given range a monster falls into; for example, since giants are
often at the high end of the Strength range for their size, a Large
giant's Strength score should be closer to 27 than 18.

Minimum Minimum — Maximum Slam or Claw or Gore or

Size ck Str Dex Con HD HD. Tentacle Bite Sting Tail.
Fine = 1 16-27 an =_ 2 =- 1 - —
Diminutive - 1 14-25 +413 — 4 1 1d2 1 1

Tiny = 25 12-23 4-15 => 6 1 163 142 162
Small - 411 10-21 6-17 V2 143 164 143 1d4
Medium = 19 19 8-19 1 = 1d4 106 1d4 146
Large 2 18-27 6-17 10-23, 2 = 1d6 168 1d6 148.
Huge 4 24-33 +15 12-27 4 =_ 148 266 1d8 2d6
Gargantuan 6 30-41 43 14-31 12 = 2d6 2d8 246 248
Colossal 211 18-39 208 406

  

   

  
