  
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
   
 

 
   

expected, because those numbers are determined by the crea-
ture’s Hit Dice,

Obviously, many monsters break this rule, usually by falling 1
or 2 Hit Dice short of their CR. That's okay, provided thatthe mon-
ster has special attacks or qualities that make it a suitable chal-|
lenge at its CR.

ABILITY SCORES }
Un this entry, a creature's ability scores are presented in this order.
Str Dex, Con, Int, Wis, Cha,

Assigning Abilities: Physical abilities (Strength, Dexterity,
jand Constitution) are largely a function of a creature's type and
_size,.as shown on Table 5-1. In. general, the bigger a creature gets,

the higher its Strength and Constitution scores and the lower its
Dexterity. Exceptions abound.

The remaining abilities (Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma)
jare seldom related to size. Youll need to assign values to these abil-
jities to match your concept. |

Intelligence; Reflects how well the creature learns and reasons.)
Ln most cases, itaffects how many skills and feats the creature has.

A creature needs an Intelligence score of at least 3 to speak a lan
guage; anything lower makes the creature no smarter than a typi-
cal animal. An Intelligence score of 4 t0 7 represents a limited abil-
ity to reason and a certain low cunning An Intelligence score of §
or 9 approaches the typical human range. A score of 10 or 11
covers the human norm. A score of 12 to 19 reflects above-average
to genius-level Intelligence. A score of 20 or higher represents
{superhuman intellect.

Wisdom: Reflects the creature’ level of perception and strength
jof will A creature can have a very low Intelligence score.and still
tbe very wise. A Wisdom score of 3 or lower indicates a creature
\that is barely sentient, A score of 4 to 6 represents Wisdom equiv-
alent to that of an unusually foolhardy or unperceptive human. A
\score of 16 to 18 reflects acute senses and unusual guile. A score of
20 or higher represents superhuman perceptiveness.

Charisma: Reflects the creature's sense of self and ability to.
influence other creatures for good or for ill (a particularly scary.
creature often has a high Charisma score), A creature can have a.
very low Intelligence score and still be very charismatic. A!
Charisma score of 3 or lower indicates a creature that is barely sen-|
tient. A score of 4 to 6 represents Charisma equivalent.to that of a;
strikingly sullen, crass, or retiring human. A score of 16 to 18
reflects an unusually strong presence and force of personality. A
score of 20 or higher represents superhuman Charisma

Nonabilities: Some creatures lack one or more ability scores,
In most cases, a.nonability is.an advantage forthe creature. Note
that all creatures must have both a Wisdom score and a Charisma
score. Anything that lacks Wisdom or Charisma is an object, not a

{creature (though it may be alive, such as a tree or a sponge).

INITIATIVE

This entry gives the creature's modifier to initiative rolls, The
bonus is most commonly derived from the creature's Dexterity
modifier and the Improved Initiative feat (if the creature has ir),

SPEED
This entry gives the creatures base land speed in feet per move action.
All speeds must be evenly divisible by 5 feet. Most creatures have base
land.speeds of between 20 and 40 feet. Larger creatures and
.quadrupeds tend to be faster, and predators or creatures noted for
their fast: movement could have a speed of up to 60 to 80 feet. Com-
| pare.the speeds of monsters similar-to your monster concept to pick a
jsuitable value. See Table 5-2 for some. guidelines and suggestions.
|_Ifthe creature has other modes of movement, list all that apply
afterthe base land speed in alphabetical order. If the creature wears
armor.that.reduces its speed, it’s helpful to give its reduced move-,
ment rate ina parenthetical note following the base land speed.

 

 
 

ARMOR CLASS |
All creatures start with a base Armor Class of 10, which is modi-|
fied by the creature's size, Dexterity, armor (including natural,
armor), and shield, Some creatures, such as incorporeal monsters,,
jmay also have a deflection bonus.to their Armor Class.

Consider the creature's anatomy and overall roughness when
syou choose an Armor Class for your monster. The table below
shows some typical values for natural armor,

‘Touch Armor Class: To figure your monster's Armor Class against
touch attacks, add only its size modifier, Dexterity modifier, and |
{deflection bonus (if any) to its base AC of 10. }

Hlat-Footed Armor.Class: To figure your monster's Armor Class.
when it is caught flat-footed, include all the. normal elements
except the creature's Dexterity bonus.

Donk forget to include the creature's size modifier in your final |
Armor Class calculation, If the creature wears armor, its natural

4armor bonus stacks with the bonus provided by its armor. For

example, a centaur is a Large creature with a Dexterity score of 14
\(+2 bonus to AC) and +2 natural armor, If the centaur carries a,

jheavy shield and wears. chain shirt, its Armor Class is 19 (~-1 size,
+2 Dex, +2 natural, +2 heavy shield, +4 chain shirt).

Armor Class and Target CR: Too high an Armor Class may.,
make your monster unbeatable at the Challenge Rating you're
aiming for. Too Jow, and the. monster wont be achallenge ar all, A
good rule of chumb is to arrange the components.of acreature’s AC
to arrive at a total Armor Class equal to 13 + target CR. For ex-
ample, if youd like your monster to be about CR, you should aim

jfor AC 21, Naturally, you can choose to make.a. monster somewhat |

more soft-skinned if it has other defenses (damage reduction, for}
example), or you might choose to make your monster an_unusti-|
ally tough target for its CR by giving it “extra’ armor.

TABLE 5-2: TYPICAL SPEEDS

Slow Normal Fast _ Example Creature
Tiny or Small biped 15f. 20ft 30ft. Halfling (20 ft)
Medium biped 20f. 308.  40f Human. (30 ft,)
Large or Huge biped 30f. 40ft. SO ft. Ogre (40 ft.)
Tiny quadruped 1S. 20ft. 30 ft Cat (30 ft)
Small quaduped 30f. 40f.SOft. Dog (40 ft.)
Medium quadruped 30 ft. 40 fi. 50 ft Wolf (50 ft.)
Large or Huge 30 ft. SOft. 60f Unicorn (60 ft.)
quadruped
Tiny,or Small flier 40, SO ft, 60 ft. Raven (40 ft.)
Medium flier 40ft GOR 90f, Gargoyle (60 ft)
Large or Huge flier 60 ft. 80ft, 120 ft Griffon (80 ft.)
Swimmer 40 ft. 60f, 80ff. Water naga (50 ft)

Taste S—3; TyPicat NATURAL ARMOR VALUES
Type

Bonus Example Creature

Normal skin +0 Human

Thick skin or fur +1 to +3, Baboon (+1)
Black bear (+2)
Shark (+3)

Tough hide +410 +7 Crocodile (+4)
Polar bear (+5)
Boar (+6)
Rhinoceros (+7)

Scales +5t0.+10ormore Dragon (varies),

Exoskeleton +2to+llormore Giant bee (+2)
Chuul (+10)

Remothaz (+11)
Juvenile tojanida (+10)
Bulette (+12)

Otyugh (+8)

Kraken (+14)

Ravid (+15)

‘Shell or carapace. +10.t0.+12 or more.

Very tough hide +8 to. +15 or more

 
