CHAPTER G-MONSTER —sacafomianclecsnectwllinddstveren rome bet
SKILLS AND FEATS Seeetipe ucieane coceed mckeaonen acl

This chapter provides descriptions of one skill, Control Shape,and, _,= damage dealt) or be knocked flying 10 feet in a direction of the
a number of feats thatare typically used only. by. monsters. {attacking creature's choice and fall prone. The attacking creature
|. {can only push the opponent.in a straight line, and the opponent
GONTROL SHAPE (wis) can't move closer to the attacking creature than the square it
‘Any character who has contracted lycanthropy and is aware of his __started in, If an obstacle prevents the completion of the oppo-
condition can learn Control Shape.as.a.class skill. (An afflicted) _jnent's move, the opponent and the obstacle.each take 1d6 points,
lycanthrope not yet aware of his.condition can attempt Control of damage, and the opponent stops in the space adjacent.to the}
\Shape checks untrained.) This skill determines whether an obstacle
afflicted lycanthrope can control his shape. A tiatural lycanthrope .
does not need this skill, since it has full control over its shape. CRAFT CONSTRUCT [ITEM CREATION]
Check (Involuntary Change): An afflicted character must The creature can create golems and other magic automatons that)
make a check at moonrise each night of the full moon to resist obey its orders.
involuntarily assuming animal form. An injured character must. _|__ Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Craft Wondrous
jalso.check for an involuntary change after accumulating enough| Item. +
idamage to reduce his hit points by one-quarter and again after|, _,_Benefit: A creature with this featcan create any construct.
jeach additional one-quarter lost. . iwhose prerequisites it: meets, Enchanting a construct takes one
Involuntary Change. Control Shape DC day for each 1,000 gp in its market price. To enchant aconstruct, a,
Resist involuntary change 2 spellcaster must spend 1/25 the item's price in XP and use up raw,
On a failed check, the character must remain in animal form until materials costing half of this price (see the Golem, Homunculus,
the next dawn, when he automatically returns to his base form. A and Shield Guardian monster entries for details).
character aware of his condition may make one attempt to return A creature with this feat can repair constructs that have taken
to humanoid form (see below), but if he fails, he remains in animal damage, In one day of work, the creature.can repair.up to.20 points.
(form until the next dawn. of damage by expending 50 gp per point of damage repaired, 4

Retry (Involuntary Change); Check to resist. an involuntary , A newly created construct has average hit points for irs Hit
|change once each time a triggering event occurs. Dice,

Check (Voluntary Change): In addition, an afflicted lycan- EMPOWER SPELL-LIKE ABILITY [GENERAL] |
Uthrope aware of his condition may attempt to.use this skill volun- The creature can_use aspell-like ability with greater effect than}
jtarily in order to. change to animal form, assume hybrid form, or normal.

\rerurn to humanoid form, regardless of the state of the moon or Prerequisite: Spell-like ability at caster level 6th or higher.|
whether he has been injured. Benefit: Choose one of the creature's spell-like abilities, subject
Involuntary Change Control Shape DC to the restrictions below. The creature can use that ability as an
Return to humanoid form (full moon*) 25 empowered spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if the
Return to humanoid form (not full moon) 20) ability is normally usable only once or twice per day),
Assume hybrid form Ss When a creature uses an empowered spell-like ability, all vari-
Voluntary change to animal form (full moon) 15.) _ able, numeric effects of the spell-like ability are increased by one-
Voluntary change to animal form (not full moon) 20 half. An empowered spell-like ability does half again as much
* For game purposes, the full moon_lasts three days every month. damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, affects half
Retry (Voluntary Change); A character can retry voluntary again as many targets, and so on.as appropriate, For example, a
changes to animal form or hybrid formas often as he likes. Each night hag’s empowered magic missile deals 1-1/2 times normal
attempt is a standard action. However, on a failed check to return damage (roll 1d4+1 and multiply the result by 1-1/2 for each mis-
to humanoid form, the character must remain in animal or hybrid sile). Saving throws and opposed rolls (such as the one made when
form until the next dawn, when he automatically returns to a character casts dispel magic) are not affected. Spell-like abilities
humanoid form. without random variables are not affected.

Special: An afflicted lycanthrope cannot attempt a voluntary The creature can only selecta spell-like ability duplicating a
jchange until it becomes aware of its condition (see Lycanthropy as spell with a level less than or equal to half its caster level (round.
\an Affliction, page 178). down) —2. For a summary, see the table in the description of the

Quicken Spell-Like Ability feat. For example, a creature that uses

ABILITY FOCUS [GENERAL] its spell-like abilities asa 13th-level caster can only empower spell-
Choose one of the creature's special attacks, This attack becomes like abilities duplicating spells of 4th level or lower.

more potent than normal. Special: This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is

Prerequisite: Special attack. taken, the creature can apply it to a different one of its spell-like

Benefit: Add +2 to the DC for all saving throws against the spe- abilites.
cial attack on which the creature focuses.

Special: A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects FLYBY ATTACK [GENERAL]

do not stack. Each time the creature takes the feat, it applies to a The creature canattack on the wing.
idifferent special arrack. . Prerequisite: Fly speed.
Benefit: When flying, the creature can take a move action
AWESOME BLOW [GENERAL, FIGHTER] ‘(including a dive) and another standard action at any point during |
(The creature can choose to deliver blows that send its smaller ithe move. The creature cannot take a second move.action during a
‘opponents flying like bowling pins. [round when it makes a flyby attack.
Prerequisites: Str 25, Power Attack, Improved Bull Rush, size. _|__Normal: Without this feat, the creature takes a standard action

Large or larger, | either before or after its move.

 
