CHAPTER 7: GLOSSARY

This chapter provides definitions and descriptions of monster
characteristics. If you come across a term earlier in this book thar
you're not familiar with, this is the place to find out more.

Aberration Type: An aberration has a bizarre anatomy, strange |

abilities, an alien mindset, or any combination of the three.

Features; An aberration has the following features.

—d8 Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric),

—Good Will saves.

—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.

Tmits: An aberration possesses the following traits (unless oth-
erwise noted in a creature's entry),

—Darkvision out to.60 feet.

—Proficient with its natural weapons. If generally humanoid in}

(form, proficient with all simple weapons and any weapon it is de-|
scribed as using.

—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Aber-
rations not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with
armor. Aberrations are proficient with shields if they are profi-
cient with any form of armor.

—Aberrations eat, sleep, and breathe,

Ability Score Loss (Su): Some attacks reduce the opponent's
score in one or more abilities, This loss can be temporary (ability
damage) or permanent (ability drain),

Ability Damage: This attack damages an. opponent's ability score.

\The creature's descriptive text gives the ability and the amount of

damage. If an attack that causes ability damage scores a critical hit,
vit deals twice the indicated amount of damage (if the damage is
expressed.as a die range, roll two dice). Ability damage returns at
the rate of 1. point per day for each affected ability.

Ability Drain: This effect permanently reduces a living oppo-
nent's ability score when the crearure hits with a melee attack, The
creature's descriptive text gives the ability and the amount,
drained. If an attack that causes ability drain scores a critical hit, it,
drains twice the indicated amount (if the damage is expressed as a,
die range, roll two dice). Unless otherwise specified in the crea-
ture’s description, a draining creature gains 5 temporary hit points
(10 on a critical hit) whenever it drains an ability score no matter
how many points it drains, Temporary hit points gained in this
fashion last for a maximum of 1 hour,

Some ability drain attacks allow a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2
draining creature's racial HD + draining creature's Cha modifier,
ithe exact DC is given in the creature's descriptive text). If no
\saving throw is mentioned, none is allowed.

Alternate Form (Su); A creature with this special quality has
the ability to assume.one or more specific alternate forms, This
ability works much like the polymorph spell, except that the crea-
ture is limited to the forms specified, and does not regain any hit
points for changing its form. Assuming an alternate form results
in the following changes to the creature:

—tThe creature retains the type and subtype of its original form.
Ir gains the size of its new form,

—The creature loses the natural weapons, natural armor, move-

;mentmodes, and extraordinary special attacks of its original form,
—The creature gains the natural. weapons, natural armor, move-
ment. modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its new form.
—The creature retains the special qualities of its original form.
It does not gain any special qualities of its new form.

—The creature retains the spell-like abilities and supernatural |

attacks of its old form (except for breath weapons and gaze

attacks), It does not gain the spell-like abilities or supernatural,
attacks of its new form. {
—tThe creature gains the physical ability scores (Str, Dex, Con),
of its new form. It retains the mental ability scores (Int, Wis, Cha);
of its original form,
|. —The creature retains its hit points and save bonuses,
although its save modifiers may change due to a change in ability
scores,
—The creature retains any spellcasting ability it had in its orig:
inal form, although it must be able to speak intelligibly to cast,
spells with verbal components and it must have humanlike hands |
to cast spells with somatic components.
—The creature is effectively camouflaged asa creature of its
new form, and it gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks if it,uses
this ability to create a disguise.

Air Subtype: This subtype usually is used for elementals and
Joutsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane Air. Air crea-
tures always have fly speeds and usually have perfect maneuver-
Jability (see the section on Movement, page 311).

Alignment; This line in a. monster entry gives the alignment
that the creature is most likely to have, Every_entry. includes a
qualifier that indicates how broadly that alignment applies to all
monsters of that kind,

Always: The creature is born with the indicated alignment. The
creature may have a hereditary predisposition tothe alignment or,
come from a plane that predetermines it. Ivis possible for individ- |
uals to change alignment, but such individuals are either unique |
or rare exceptions,

Usually: The majority (more than $0%) of these creatures have,
the given alignment. This may be due to strong cultural influ-|
ences, or it may be a legacy of the creatures’ origin. For example,
most elves inherited their chaotic good alignment from their cre~
ator, the deity Corellon Larethian.

Often: The creature tends toward the given alignment, either by
nature or nurture, but not strongly. A plurality (40-50%) of indi-
viduals have the given alignment, but exceptions are common.

 

Angel Subtype: Angels are a_race of celestials, or good our-
siders, native to the good-aligned Outer Planes, In the D&D cos-
mology, these planes are the Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia,
the Twin Paradises of Byropia, the Olympian Glades of Arborea,
the Blessed Fields of Elysium, and the Wilderness of the Beast-
lands.

‘Traits, An. angel possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
noted in a.creature’ entry).

—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.

—Immunity to acid, cold, and petrification.

—Resistance to electricity 10 and fire 10.

—++ racial bonus on saves against poison.

—Protective Aura (Su): Against attacks made or effects created
by evil. creatures, this ability provides a.+4 deflection bonus to AC
and a +4 resistance bonus on saving throws to anyone within 20
feet of the angel. Otherwise, it functions as a magic circle against evil
effect and a lesser globe of invulnerability, both with a radius of 20 feet
(caster level equals angel's HD). (The defensive benefits from the |
circle are not included in an angel's statistics block.) |

—Tongues (Su); All angels can speak with any creature that has,
a language, as though using a tongues spell (caster level equal. to!
angel's Hit Dice). This ability is always active.

Animal Type; An animal is a living, nonhuman. creature, usu-|
sally.a-vertebrate with no magical abilities and no innate capacity
{for Janguage or culture.

Features: An animal has the following features (unless otherwise

noted in.a.creature’s entry),

 
