     
 
 
    
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
    
   

wall or slope with a DC of more than 0, butit always.can choose to
take 10 (see Checks without Rolls, page 65 of the Player's Handbook),
even if rushed or threatened while climbing. The creature climbs ar
the given speed while climbing. If it. chooses an accelerated climb
(see the Climb skill, page 69 of the Player's Handbook), it moves at.
double the given climb speed (or its base land speed, whichever is.
lower) and makes a single Climb check ata ~S penalty. Creatures}
{cannot run while climbing. A creature retains its Dexterity bonus.
\to Armor Class (if any) while climbing, and opponents get no spe-,
.cial bonus on their attacks against.a climbing creature,
| Fly: A creature with a fly speed can move through the air at the |
Lindicated speed if carrying no more than a light load; see Carrying
Capacity, page 161 of the Player's Handbook. (Note that medium
armor does not necessarily constitute a medium load.) All fly speeds
include a parenthetical nore indicating maneuverability, as follows:

—Perfect: The creature.can perform almost any aerial maneu-

.wer it wishes. It moves through the air as well as a human moves.
yover smooth ground.

|=Good: The creature is very agile in the air (like a housefly orl 1
\a hummingbird), but cannot change direction as readily as those,
with perfect maneuverability.

—Average: The creature can fly as adroitly as a small bird.

—Poor: The creature flies as well as a very large bird.

—Clumsy: The creature can barely maneuver at all.

A creature that flies can make dive attacks. A dive attack works

just like a charge, but the diving creature.must move a minimum
jof 30 feet and descend at least 10 feet. It can make only claw or
(talon attacks, but these deal double damage. A creature can use the
jrun action while flying, provided it flies in.a straight line.

| For more information, see Tactical Aerial Movement, page 20 of
ithe Dungeon Master's Guide.

‘Swim: A creature with a swim speed can move through water at
its swim speed without making Swim checks. It_has.a+8 racial
\bonus on any Swim check to perform some special action or avoid

a hazard. The creature can always can choose to take 10.0n.a Swim
check, even if distracted or endangered. The creature.can. use the
run action while swimming, provided it swims in a.straight line.

Native Subtype: A subtype applied only to outsiders, These |
creatures have mortal ancestors or a strong connection to the |
Material Plane and can be raised, reincarnated, or resurrected just.
as other living creatures can be. Creatures with this subtype are.
native to the Material Plane (hence the subtypes name).

Unlike true outsiders, native outsiders need to eat and sleep.

Natural Weapons: Natural weapons are weapons that are phys-

ically a part of a creature, A creature making a melee attack with a

.natural weapon is considered armed and does not provoke attacks
Jof opportunity. Likewise, it threatens any space it can reach.

Creatures do not receive additional attacks from a high base at-

itack bonus when using natural weapons. The number of attacks a
creature can make with its natural weapons depends on the type
of the attack—generally, a creature can make one bite artack, one
attack per claw or tentacle, one gore attack, one sting attack, orone
slam attack (although Large creatures with arms or armlike limbs
can make a slam attack with each arm), Refer to the individual
monster descriptions.

Unless otherwise noted, a natural weapon threatens a critical

hit ona natural attack roll of 20.

When a creature has more than one natural weapon, one of
,them (or sometimes a pair or set of them) is the primary.weapon.
|All the creature's remaining natural weapons are secondary.
|The primary. weapon is given in the creature's Artack entry, and
{the primary.sveapon or weapons is given first in the creature's Full
Attack entry. A creature's primary natural weapon is its most effec-
tive natural attack, usually by virtue of the creature's physiology,.
training, or innate talent with the weapon. An attack with a pri-

mary.natural weapon uses the creature's full attack bonus. Attacks ,
with secondary natural weapons are less effective and are made
with.a-S penalty on the attack roll, no matter how many there are. |
(Creatures with the Multiattack feat take only a—2 penalty on sec-;
jondary attacks,) This penalty applies even when the creature
imakes a single attack with the secondary weapon as part of the
yattack action or as an attack of opportunity,

Natural weapons have types just as other weapons do, The most

common are summarized below.

Bite: The creature attacks with its mouth, dealing piercing.|
slashing, and bludgeoning damage.

Claw or Talon: The creature rips with a sharp. appendage. dealing

piercing and slashing damage.

Gore: The creature spears the opponent with an antler, horn, or,

similar appendage, dealing piercing damage.

Slap or Slam: The creature batters opponents with an appendage,
dealing bludgeoning damage.

Sting: The creature stabs with a stinger, dealing piercing dam-
jage. Sting attacks usually deal damage from poison in addition to,
Jhit point damage.

Tentacle: The creature flails at opponents with a powerful ten-

tacle, dealing bludgeoning (and sometimes slashing) damage.

Nonabilities; Some creatures lack certain ability scores, These
creatures do not have an abiliry score of Q—they. lack the ability
altogether. The modifier for a nonability is +0, Other effects of
nonabilities are detailed below.

Strength: Any.creature that can physically manipulate other,
objects has at least 1 point of Strength.

A creature with no Strength score can't exert force, usually he}
cause it has no physical body (a spectre, for example) or because it
doesn't move (a shrieker). The creature automatically fails
Strength checks. If the creature can attack, it applies its Dexterity,
modifier to its base attack bonus instead of a Strength modifier.

Dexterity: Any creature that can move has at least.1_point.of
Dexterity.

A creature with no Dexterity score can't move (a shricker, for
example), If it can perform actions (such as casting spells), it ap-
plies its Intelligence modifier to initiative checks instead of a Dex-
terity modifier. The creature automatically fails Reflex saves and
Dexterity checks.

Constitution: Any living creature has at least. point of Constitution.

A.creature with no Constitution has no body (a spectre, for ex-
ample) or no metabolism (a golem).Itis immune to any effect that
requires a Fortitude save unless the effect works on objects or is
harmless, For example, a zombie is unaffected by any type of
poison but is susceptible to a disintegrate spell. The creature is also
immune .to ability damage, ability drain, and energy drain, and
automatically fails Constitution checks. A creature with no Con-
stitution cannot tire and thus.can run indefinitely without tiring
(unless the creature's description says it cannot run),

Intelligence: Any-creature that.can.think, learn, or remember has
at Jeast.1 point of Intelligence.

Accreature with no Intelligence score is mindless, an automaton
operating on simple instincts or programmed instructions, It has
immunity to mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phan-
tasms, patterns, and morale effects) and automatically fails Intelli-,
gence checks, i

Mindless creatures. do not gain feats or skills, although they.
may haye bonus feats or racial skill bonuses, 4

Wisdom: Any creature that can perceive its environment in any,
fashion has.at least 1 point of Wisdom. 4

Anything with no Wisdom score is an object, not a creature.

\Anything without.a Wisdom score also has.no.Charisma score.

Charisma: Any creature capable of telling the difference

jhenveen itself and things that are_not itself has at least 1 point of

‘Charisma,

  
