Anything with no Charisma score is. an object, not a.creature.
Anything without a Charisma score also has no Wisdom score.

Ooze Type: An ooze is. an amorphous or mutable creature, usu-
ally mindless,

Features: An ooze has the following features.

—10-sided Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4.total Hit Dice (as cleric),
No good saving throws.

 

 

|Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the ooze
ihas an Intelligence score, However, most oozes are mindless and
gain. no skill points or feats,

Traits: An ooze possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
noted in a creature's entry).

—Mindless: No Intelligence score, and immunity to all mind-
affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and
-morale effects),

—Blind (but haye the blindsight special quality), with immu]
nity to gaze attacks, visual effects, illusions, and other attack forms .

that rely on sight.

—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, polymorph, and
stunning.

—Some oozes have the ability to deal acid damage to objects. In
such @ case, the amount of damage is equal to 10+ 1/2 ooze's HD +
ooze's Con modifier per full round of contact.

—Nort subject to critical hits or flanking.

—Proficient with its natural weapons only.

—Proficient with no armor.

—Cozes eat and breathe, but do not sleep.

Outsider Type: An outsider is at least partially composed of the
Jessence (but not necessarily the material). of some plane other
than the Material Plane. Some creatures start out as some other
type.and become outsiders when they attain a higher (or lower)
state of spiritual existence.

Features: An outsider has the following features.

—8-sided Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal.to total Hit Dice (as fighter).

—Good Fortitude, Reflex, and Will saves.

—skill points equal to (8 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit,

Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.

Traits: An outsider possesses the following traits (unless other-
wise noted in.a.creature’s entry),

—Darkvision out to 60 feet,

—Unlike most other living creatures, an outsider does not have
a dual nature—its soul and body form one unit. When an outsider
is slain, no soul is set loose. Spells that restore souls to their bodies,
such as mise dead, reincarnate, and resurrection, don't work on an out-

sider It takes a different magical effect, such as limited wish, wish,
uminicle, or true resurrection. to restore it.to life. An outsider with the
native subtype (see page 312) can be raised, reincarnated, or resur-
rected just as other living creatures can be.

—Proficient with all simple and martial weapons and any
weapons mentioned in its entry.

—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types, Out-
siders not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with
armor, Outsiders are proficient with shields if they are proficient

with any form of armor,

—Oursiders breathe, but do not need to eat or sleep (although
they can do so if they wish). Native outsiders breathe, eat, and sleep.

Paralysis (Ex or Su); This special attack renders the victim.
immobile. Paralyzed creatures cannot move, speak, or take any
physical actions. The creature is rooted to the spot, frozen and
helpless. Paralysis works on the body, and a character can usually.

Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit)

resist it with a Fortitude saving throw (the DC is given in the crea |
ture’s description), Unlike hold person and similar effects, a paraly-|
sis effect does not allow a new save each round. A winged creature,

flying in the air at the time thar itis paralyzed cannot flap its wings

sand falls. A swimmer cant swim and may drown.

Plant Type: This type comprises vegetable creatures. Note that
regular plants, such as one finds growing in gardens and fields,

lack Wisdom and Charisma scores (see Nonabilities, above) and,

are not creatures, but objects, even though they are alive.
Features: A plant creature has the following features.
—S-sided Hit Dice.
—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
—Good Fortitude saves.
—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit!
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the plant

creature has an Intelligence score, However, some plant creatures
Jare mindless and gain no skill points or feats.

Traits: A plant creature. possesses the following traits (unless,

otherwise noted in a creature's entry).
—Low-light vision.

—Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compul-,

sions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).

—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, polymorph, and
stunning.

—Nor subject to critical hits.

—Proficient with its natural weapons only.

—Proficient with no armor.

—Plants breathe and eat, but do nor sleep,

Poison (Ex): Poison attacks deal initial damage, such as ability |

damage (see page 305) ot some other effect, to the opponent on a

failed Fortitude save, Unless otherwise noted, another saving,

throw is required 1 minute later (regardless of the first save's
result) to avoid secondary damage. A creature's descriptive text
provides the details.

A creature with a poison attack is immune to its own poison and
the poison of others of its kind.

The Fortitude save DC against a poison attack is equal to 10 +
1/2 poisoning creature's racial HD + poisoning creature's Con
modifier (the exact DC is given inthe creature's descriptive text)
A successful save avoids (negates) the damage.

Pounce (Ex): When.a creature with this special attack makes a
charge, it can follow with a full attack—including rake attacks if
the creature also has the rake ability.

Powerful Charge (Ex): When a creature with this special
attack makes a charge, its attack deals extra damage in addition to
the normal benefits and hazards of a charge. The amount of
damage from the attack is given in the creature's description.

Psionics (Sp): These are spell-like abilities that a creature gen-
erates with the power of its mind. Psionic abilities are usually
usable at will.

Racial Hit Dice: The Hit Dice a monster has by virtue of what.
type of creature it is, Hit Dice gained from raking class levels are

not racial Hit Dice, For example, the mind flayer sorcerer}

described in this book is a 17 HD creature because of its nine.

Jevels of sorcerer, but it has 8 racial Hit Dice (the same numbers.

a typical mind flayer without any class levels),

Rake (Ex): A creature with this special attack gains extra natu-

vraLattacks when it grapples its foe. Normally, a monster can attack
|ywith only one of its natural weapons while grappling, but a mon-

ster with the rake ability usually gains two additional claw attacks

 
