  
 
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    
    
 

 
   

thar it can use only against.a grappled foe. Rake attacks are not
subject to the usual —4 penalty for attacking with a natural weapon
ina grapple.

Amonster with the rake ability must begin its turn grappling to
use its rake—it cant begin a grapple and rake in the same turn,,

Ray (Su or Sp): This form of special attack works like a ranged ,
jattack (see Aiming a Spell, page 175 of the Player's Handbook). Hit-
|ting with a ray attack requires a successful ranged touch attack)
roll, ignoring armor, natural armor, and shield and using the crea-)
\ture's ranged attack bonus, Ray.atracks have no range increment.
\The creature's descriptive text specifies the maximum range,
effects, and any applicable saving throw.

Regeneration (Ex): A creature with this ability is difficult to
kill, Damage dealt to the creature is treated as nonlethal damage.
The.creature automatically heals nonlethal damage at a fixed rate
,per.round, as given in the entry (for example, a troll has regenera-|

jtion s), Certain attack forms, typically fire and acid, deal lethal)
jdamage to the creature, which doesn't go away, The creature's,
descriptive text describes the details.

A regenerating creature that has been rendered unconscious
through nonlethal damage can be killed with a coup de grace (see
page 153 of the Player's Handbook). The attack cannot be of a type
that automatically converts to nonlethal damage.

Attack forms that don't deal hit point damage (for example, most
.poisons and disintegration) ignore regeneration. Regeneration also.
\does not restore hit points lost from starvation, thirst, or suffocation.

Regenerating creatures can regrow lost portions of their bodies
jand can reattach severed limbs or body. parts; details are in the
\creature's descriptive text. Severed parts that are not reattached
\wither and die normally.

A creature must have a Constitution score to have the regenera-

tion ability,

Reptilian Subtype: These creatures are scaly and usually cold-
blooded. The reptilian subtype is only used to describe a set of
humanoid races, not all animals and monsters that are truly reptiles.

Resistance to Energy (Ex): A creature with this special quality.
ignores some damage of the indicated type each time ittakes dam-
age of thar kind (commonly acid,.cold, fire, or electricity). The
entry indicates the amount and type of damage ignored. For
example,alillend has resistance to fire 10, so it ignores the first 10
points of fire damage dealt to it anytime it takes fire damage.

Scent (Ex): This special quality allows a.creature to detect
.approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of
{smell. Creatures with the scent ability can identify familiar odors
,justas humans do familiar sights,

TABLE 7—1: CREATURE SIZES

Size AC/Attack Grapple Hide

Category Modifier Modifier__Modifier _ Dimension®
Fine +8 -16 +16 6 in, or less
Diminutive +4 -12 +12 6 in f
Tiny +2 8 8 1-2 ft.
Small +) 4 a4 2 f-4 ft
Medium +0 +0 +0 4h-8 ft
Large 1 4 4 8 R16 ft.
Huge 2 +8 3 16 ft-32 ft.
Gargantuan -4 +12 -12 32 ft.-64 ft
Colossal & +16 -16 64 ft. or more

* Biped’s height, quadruped’s body length (nose to base of tail).

  

The creature can detect opponents within 30 feet by sense of
smell. If the opponent is upwind, the range increases to 60 feet: if|
downwind, it drops to 15 feet. Strong scents, such as smoke or rot-
ting garbage, can be detected at twice the ranges noted above.’

Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk or troglodyte stench,
can be detected at triple normal range.

When a creature detects ascent, the exact location of the source
is not revealed—only its presence somewhere within range. The
creature can take a move action to note the direction of the scent,
Whenever the creature comes within $ feet of the source, the crea-|
ture pinpoints the source's location.

A creature with the Track feat and the scent ability can follow.
tracks by smell, making a Wisdom (or Survival) check to find or
follow.a track. The typical DC fora fresh trail is 10 (no matter what
kind of surface holds the scent). This DC increases. or decreases
depending on how strong the quarry’s odor is, the number of crea-
tures, and the age of the trail. For each hour that the trail is cold,

the DC increases by 2, The ability otherwise follows the rules for
\the Track feat. Creatures tracking by scent ignore the effects of ,
,surface conditions and poor visibility,

Shapechanger Subtype: A shapechanger has the supernatural
ability to assume one or more alternate forms, Many. magical ¢f-
fects allow.some kind of shape shifting, and not.every.creature
that can change shapes has the shapechanger subtype.

Traits: A shapechanger possesses the following traits (unless
otherwise noted in a creature's entry).

—Proficient with its natural weapons, with simple weapons, |
and with any weapons mentioned in the creature's description.

—Proficient with any armor mentioned in the creature's
description, as wells all lighter forms. If no form ofarmoris men-
tioned, the shapechanger is not proficient with armor. A shape-
changer is proficient with shields if it is proficient with any type
of armor.

Size: The nine size categories are (in ascending order) Fine,
Diminutive, Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge. Gargantuan, and
Colossal. A creature's size provides a modifier to its Armor Class
and attack bonus, a modifier on. grapple checks it attempts, and a
modifier on Hide checks, Table 7~1: Creature Sizes provides a
summary of the attributes that apply to each size category.

Sonic Attacks (Su): Unless otherwise noted, a sonic attack fol-
lows the rules for spreads (see Aiming a Spell, page 175 of the
Player's Handbook), The range of the spread is measured from the
creature_using the sonic attack. Once a sonic attack has taken ef-
fect, deafening the subject or stopping its ears does not end the
effect. Stopping one’s ears ahead of time allows opponents to avoid
having to make saving throws against mind-affecting sonic
attacks, but not other kinds of sonic attacks (such as those that

Space Reach (Tall) Reach (Long)
Weight" {in squares) _{in squares).__(in squares)
1/8 Ib, or less 1/2 ft. (1/100) Oft. (0) -
1/8 Ib,— 1b Lft.(1/25) Oft. (0) ==
1-81b, 24/2 (1/4) Of. (0) -
8-60 b. 5.ft.(1) 5 ft (1) -
60-500 Ib. 5 ft. (1) Sf. (1) 5 ft. (1)
500 — 4,000 Ib. 10f.(2x2) 10 ft. (2) 5 ft. (1)
2-16 tons 1S Gx3) 15.3) 10 ft. (2)
16-125 tons. 20ft. (4x4) 20 ff. (4) 15 ft, (3)
12S tonsormore 30 E+ (6X4) IOFR+ (6+) 20+ (4+)

*Assumes that the creature is roughly as dense as a regular animal. A creature made of stone will weigh considerably more. A gaseous creature

will weigh much less.
