deal damage). Stopping one's ears is-a full-round action and

requires wax or other soundproof material to stuff into the ears.

Special Abilities: A special ability is either extraordinary (Ex),
spell-like (Sp), or supernatural (Su),

Extraordinary; Extraordinary abilities are nonmagical, don't.
become ineffective in an antimagic field, and are not subject to any.
jeffect that disrupts magic. Using an extraordinary ability is a free,

\action unless otherwise noted.

__Spell-Like: Spell-like abilities are magical and work just like)

spells (though they are not spells and so have no verbal, somatic,
material, focus, or XP components), They go away in an antimagic
field and are subject to spell resistance if the spell the ability resem-
bles or duplicates would be subject to spell resistance.

A spell-like ability usually has a limit on how often it can be
used. A spell-like ability that can be used at will has no use limit
,Using.a spell-like ability is.a standard action unless noted other-

wise, and doing so while threatened provokes attacks of opportu,
lnity. 1 is possible to make a Concentration check to use a spell-|
like ability defensively and avoid provoking an attack of,
opportunity, just as when casting 2 spell. A spell-like ability can be |

disrupted just as a spell can be. Spell-like abilities cannot be used
to counterspell, nor can they be counterspelled
For creatures with spell-like abilities, a designated caster level
defines how difficult it is to dispel their spell-like effects and to
define any level-dependent variables (such as range and duration)
the abilities might have. The creature's caster level never affects
lwhich spell-like abilities the creature has; sometimes the given
jcaster level is lower than the level a spellcasting character would
need to cast the spell of the same name. If no caster level is speci-
fied, the caster level is equal to the creature's Hit Dice.
The saving throw (if any) against a spell-like ability is 10 + the
level of the spell the ability resembles or duplicates + the creature's
\Cha modifier.
Some. spell-like abilities duplicate spells that work differently
when cast by characters of different classes—for example, true see-
ing. A monster's spell-like abilities are presumed to be the sor-

cerer/wizard versions. If the spell in question is not a,
sorcerer/wizard spell, then default to cleric, druid, bard, paladin, |

and ranger, in that order.

Supernatural: Supernatural abilities are magical and go away in,

an antimagic field but are not subject to spell resistance. Supernat-
ural abilities cannot be dispelled, Using a supernatural ability is a
standard action unless noted otherwise. Supernatural abilities
may have a.use limit or be usable ar will, just like spell-like abili-
ties. However, supernatural abilities do not provoke attacks of
opportunity and never require Concentration checks, Unless oth-
erwise noted, a supernatural ability hasan effective caster level
yequal to the creature's Hit Dice.
‘The saving throw (if any) against a supernatural ability is 10 +
1/2 the creature's HD +.the creature's ability modifier (usually
Charisma),

Spell Immunity (Ex): A creature with spell immunity avoids
the effects of spells and spell-like abilities that directly affect it.
This works exactly like spell resistance, except thar it cannot be
overcome, Sometimes spell immunity is.conditional or applies to
only spells of a certain kind or level. Spells that do not allow spell
resistance are not affected by spell immunity.

._ Spell Resistance (Ex): A creature with spell resistance can
\avoid the effects of spells and spell-like abilities thar directly affect.

\it.To determine if a spell or spell-like ability works against a crea-

jture with spell resistance, the caster must make.a caster level
check (1d20 + caster level). If the result equals or exceeds the crea-
ture’s spell resistance, the spell works normally, although the crea
tures still allowed a saving throw.

Spells: Sometimes a creature can cast arcane or divine spells |
justasa member of a spellcasting class can (and can activate magic,
items accordingly). Such creatures are subject to the same spell-|
casting rules thar characters are, except as follows.

A spellcasting creature that lacks hands or arms can provide. any.
{somatic component spell might require by moving its body. Such
\a creature also does need material components for its spells. The

creature can cast the spell by either touching the required compo-
nent (but not if the component is in another creature's possession)
.or having the required component on its person. Sometimes spell-
casting creatures utilize the Eschew Materials feat to.avoid fussing |
with noncostly components.

Aspellcasting creature is not actually a member of aclass unless
its entry says so, and it does not gain any_class abilities. For,
example, a.creature that casts arcane spells as.a sorcerer.cannot
acquire a familiar. A creature with access to cleric spells must pre-

,pare them in the normal manner and receives domain.spells if
jnoted, but ir does not receive domain granted powers unless it has
jat least one level in the cleric class,

 

Summon (Sp); A creature with the summon ability can summon.
specific other creatures of its kind much as though casting a.
summon monster spell, but it usually has only-a limited chance of
success (as specified in the. creature's entry), Roll ds On a failure,
no creature answers the summons, Summoned creatures automati-
cally return whence they.came after 1 hour. A creature thar has just
been summoned cannot use its own summon_ability for 1 hour. |

Most creatures with the ability to summon do notuse it lighth
since it leaves them beholden to the summoned creature. In ge!
eral, they use it only when necessary to save their own lives.

An appropriate spell level is given for each summoning abiliry.
for purposes of Concentration checks and attempts to dispel the |
summoned creature, As stated on page 37 of the Dungeon Master's
Guide, no experience points are awarded for summoned monsters.

  

Swallow Whole (Ex): If a creature with this special attack begins
its turn with an opponent held in its mouth (see Improved Grab,
Page 310), it can attempt a new grapple check (as though attempting
to pin the opponent). If it succeeds, it swallows its prey, and the op-
ponent takes bite damage. Unless otherwise noted, the opponent
can be up to one size category smaller than the swallowing creature.

Being swallowed has various consequences, depending on the
creature doing the swallowing. A swallowed creature is consid-
ered to.be grappled, while the creature that did the swallowing is
not. A swallowed creature can try to cut its way free with any light
slashing or piercing weapon (the amount of cutting damage
required to get free is noted in the creature description), or it can
just try to escape the grapple. The Armor Class of the interior of a
creature that swallows whole is normally 10 + 1/2 its natural
armor bonus, with no modifiers for size or Dexterity. If the swal-
lowed creature escapes the grapple, success puts it back in the
attacker's mouth, where it may be bitten or swallowed again,

Swarm Subtype: A swarm is.a collection of Fine, Diminutive,
or Tiny creatures that acts asa single creature. A swarm has the
characteristics of its type, except as noted here. A swarm has a
single pool of Hit Dice and hit points, a single initiative modifier, |
a single speed, and asingle Armor Class. A swarm makes saving |
throws asa single creature.

Asingle swarm occupies a square (if it is made up of nonflying,

.creatures).or.a. cube (of flying creatures) 10 feet on.aside, but its}
reach is.0 feet, like its component creatures, In order to attack, it).
moves into.an opponent's space, which provokes an attack of)

Lopportunity. Jt can occupy the same space as.acreature of any size,

{since it crawls all over its prey. A swarm can move through squares

joccupied by enemies and vice versa without impediment,
although the swarm provokes an attack of opportunity if it does

 
