  
 

    
  
    
  
 
    
  
 
 
    
 
 

   
  

  

component creatures.
A swarm of Tiny creatures consists of 300 nonflying creatures
or 1,000 flying creatures. A swarm of Diminutive creatures con-

sists of 1,500 nonflying creatures or 5,000 flying creatures, AL

 

swarm of Fine creatures.consists of 10,000 creatures, whether they

are flying or not. Swarms of nonflying creatures include many)
|more creatures than could normally fit in.a.10-foor square based |
‘on their normal space, because creatures in a swarm are packed,
tightly together and generally crawl over each other and their prey.

when moving or attacking, Larger swarms are represented by mul-
tiples of single swarms. (A swarm of 15,000 centipedes is ten cen-
tipede swarms, each swarm_occupying a 10-foor square.) The area
occupied by a large swarm is completely shapeable, though the
swarm usually remains in. contiguous squares.

Traits: A swarm has no.clear front or back and no discernable
anatomy, so it is not subject to critical hits or flanking. A swarm.

ymade_up of Tiny. creatures takes half damage from slashing and}
| piercing weapons. A swarm composed of Fine or Diminutive crea-|

}tures is immune to all weapon damage.

Reducing a swarm to 0 hit points or lower causes it to break up.
though damage taken until that point does not degrade its ability
to attack or resist attack. Swarms are never staggered or reduced to
a dying state by damage. Also, they cannot be tripped, grappled, or
bull rushed, and they cannot grapple an opponent.

A swarm is immune to any spell or effect that targets a specific

number of creatures (including single-target spells such as disinte-
gmte), with the exception of mind-affecting effects (charms, com-
|pulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects) if the swarm
has an Intelligence score and a hive mind. A swarm_takes half
again as much damage (+50%) from spells or effects that affect an
\area, such as splash weapons and many evocation spells.

Swarms made up of Diminutive or Fine creatures are suscep-
tible to high winds such as that created by a gust of wind spell. For
purposes of determining the effects of wind on.a swarm, treat the
swarm as.a creature of the same size as its constituent creatures
(see Winds, page 95 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). For example, a
swarm of locusts (a swarm of Diminutive creatures) can be blown.
away by.a severe wind. Wind effects deal 1d6 points of nonlethal |
damage to a swarm per spell level (or Hit Dice of the originating |
creature, in the case of effects such as an air elemental’s whirl;
wind). A swarm rendered unconscious by means of nonlethal
damage becomes disorganized and dispersed, and does not re-
form until its hit points exceed its nonlethal damage.

Swarm Attack: Creatures with the swarm subtype don't make
standard melee attacks, Instead, they.deal automatic damage to
any creature. whose space they occupy.at the.end of their move,
with no attack roll needed. Swarm attacks are.not subject to a miss
chance for concealment or cover. A swarm's statistics block has
“swarm” in the Attack and Full Attack entries, with no attack
bonus given. The amount of damage.a.swarm deals is based on its
Hit Dice, as shown below.

 

Swarm HD Swarm Base Damage
1-5 146
6-10 246,
W158 3d6
16-20 406
21 or more 5d6

,A swarm’ attacks are nonmagical, unless the swarm’s description
|states otherwise. Damage reduction sufficient to reduce a swarm.
jattack’s damage to 0, being incorporeal, and other special abilities

jusually give.a creature immunity (or. at least resistance) to damage
from aswarm. Some swarms also have acid, poison, blood drain, or
other special attacks in addition to normal damage.

Swarms do not threaten creatures in their square, and do not,

so, A swarm can move through cracks or holes large enough for its

    

   

make. attacks of opportunity with their swarm attack. However,
they distract foes whose squates they occupy, as described below.
Distraction (Ex): Any living creature vulnerable to a swarm’s.
damage that begins its rurn with a swarm in its square is nauseated |
|for 1 round; a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 swarms HD + swarms
|Con modifier, the exact DC is given in a swarms description)
[negates the effect, Spellcasting or concentrating on spells within
the area of a swarm requires a Concentration check (DC 20 + spell
level), Using skills that involve patience and concentration re-,
.quires a DC 20 Concentmation check,

Tanar'ri Subtype: Many demons belong to the race of evil our-
siders known as the tanar'ri.
Tmits: A.tanar'ti possesses the following traits (unless otherwise.
noted in.a creature's entry).
—Immunity to electricity and poison.
—Resistance to.acid 10, cold 10, and fire 10.
{4 —Summon (Sp): Tanar'ri share the ability to summon others of,
their kind (the success chance and type of tanar'ri summoned are.
inoted in each monster description).
—Telepathy.

Telepathy (Su): A creature with this ability can communicate
telepathically with any other creature within a.certain range (spec-
ified in the creature's entry, usually 100 feet) thathasa language. It
is possible to. address multiple creatures aronce telepathically,
although maintaining a telepathic conversation. with more than,
‘one creature at a.time is just as difficult as simultaneously speak- |
ing and listening to multiple people at rhe same time.

Some creatures (such as the pseudodragon) have a limited form
of telepathy, while others (such as the formian queen) have amore
powerful form of the ability.

‘Trample (Ex): As a full-round action, a crearure with this.spe-
cial attack can move up to twice its speed and literally run over any.
opponents at least one size category smaller than itself The crea-
ture merely has to move over the opponents in its path; any crea-
ture whose space is completely covered by the trampling crea-
ture’s space is subject to the trample attack.

Ifa target's space is larger than 5 feet, it is only considered tram-
pled if the trampling creature moves over all the squares it occu-
pies. Ifthe trampling creature moves over only some of a target's
space, the target can make an attack of opportunity against the
trampling creature at.a—+t penalty. A trampling creature that acci-
dentally ends its movement in an illegal space returns to the last
legal position it occupied, or the closest legal position, if there's a
legal position that's closer.

A trample attack deals bludgeoning damage (the creature's slam
damage + 1-1/2 times its Str modifier), The creature's descriptive
text gives the exact amount.

Trampled opponents can attempt.attacks of opportunity, but
these take a—4 penalty, If they do not make attacks of opportunity,
trampled opponents can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage
The save DC against a creature's trample attack is 10 + 1/2 crea-
tures HD + creature's Str modifier (the exact DC is given.in the
creature's descriptive text). A trampling creature can only deal
trampling damage to each target once per round, no matter how.
many times its movement takes it over a target creature.

‘Tremorsense (Ex): A creature with tremorsense is sensitive to
vibrations in the ground and can automatically pinpoint the loce-
tion of anything thar is in contact with the ground. Aquatic crea-}
tures with tremorsense can also sense the location of creatures,

umoving through water. The ability’s range is specified in the crea-

ture’s descriptive text.

Treasure: This entry in a monster description describes how

  
