Tam the Ancient, I am the Land. My beginnings are lost in the darkness of the
past. I was the warrior, I was good and just. I thundered across the land like the wrath
of a just god, but the war years and the killing years wore down my soul as the wind
wears stone into sand. Alll goodness slipped from my life; I found my youth and strength
gone, and all I had left was death.

Myarmy settled in the valley of Baroviaand took power over the people in the name
of a just god, but with none of a god’s grace or justice. I called for my family, long
unseated from their ancient thrones, and brought them here to settle in Castle
Ravenloft. They came with a younger brother of mine, Sergei. he was handsome and
youthful. I hated him for both.

Sergei had plucked from the families of the valley one whose spirit shone above all
others: a rare beauty who was called “perfection,” “joy” and “treasure.” her name was
Tatyana, and I longed for her to be mine. I loved her with all my heart. I loved her for
her youth. I loved her for her joy.

But she spurned me! “Old one” was my name to her — “elder” and “brother” also.
her heart went to Sergei. They were betrothed. The date was set.

With words, she called me “brother,” but when I looked into her eyes, they reflected
another name: “death.” It was the death of the aged that she saw in me. She loved her
youth and enjoyed it, but I had squandered mine. The death she saw in me turned her
from me, and so I came to hate death, my death. My hate is very strong; I would not
be called death so soon. And so, I made a pact with Death itself, a pact of blood. On the
day of his wedding, I killed Sergei. My pact was sealed with his blood.

J found Tatyana weeping in the garden east of the chapel. She fled from me. She
would not let me explain, and a great anger swelled within me. She had to understand
the pact I made for her. Il pursued her. Finally, in despair, she flung herself from the
walls of Ravenloft, and I watched everything I ever wanted fall from my grasp forever.

The fall was a thousand feet through the mists. No trace of her was ever found.
Not even I know her fate.

Arrows from the castle guards pierced me to my soul, but I did not die. Nor did
I live. I became undead, forever.

Thave studied much since then. “Vampyr” is my new name. I still lust for life and
youth, and I curse the living that took them from me. ven the sun is against me. I

fear sun and light the most. But little else can harm me now. Given a stake through my

heart does not kill me, though it holds me from movement.
Thave often hunted for Tatyana. I have even felt her within my grasp, yet she
escapes. She taunts me! She haunts me! What will it take to bend her love to me?

— Count Strahd von Zarovich, The Tome of Strahd

 
