 

eyond mortal senses, beyond your real-
ity, there lurks a boundless plane. It
permeates your world and fills the void
O} between worlds. It is the border be-
tween the lands of the living and of the
dead. There, mind and matter become one; thought
and passion, fear and yearning, can become more
tangible than iron. It is the Ethereal Plane.
Somewhere, lurking deep within those etheric
mists, a dark and nameless dimension is ruled by
dark and nameless powers. Some say it is a prison
for the damned; some say it is a crucible to test the
virtuous. Others simply call it home. It is a land of
mist and shadow, love and death, sacrifice and
seduction, beauty and horror. It is a land of whis-
pered fears made manifest. It is the Realm of Dread.

 

  

Perhaps you have sensed its touch. At the
bidding of the Dark Powers, tendrils of the ethereal
Mists that bind this land reach out to caress the
Material Plane. They stroke the skin at the back of
your neck when a creaking floorboard warns that
you are not alone in the dark. Their invisible
fingers crawl down your spine when inhuman shad-
ows rustle at the edges of your vision.

The Mists do more than merely caress. The
Dark Powers are drawn to innocence and villainy,
to loathing and desire, to obsession and to despair.
They seek out squandered dreams and inner de-
mons. They savor the decay of the spirit. Their
Mists snatch up fiends at the moment of their ruin
and steal upon heroes in times of doubt.

To what end do the Dark Powers add these
souls to their tarnished collection? To torment
them? To purify them? None can say, for few souls
drawn into the Realm of Dread ever leave to tell
the tale. Yet perhaps you will soon learn for your-
self, for tonight, the Mists have come for you.

Welcome to the Land of Mists. Welcome to
the crucible of virtue and the spoils of damnation.
Welcome to the Realm of Dread.

Welcome to Ravenloft.

by a New Edition?

While the Ravenloft Campaign Setting
brought this game world into line with the d20
System, the Ravenloft Player’s Handbook up-
dates that information to correspond to the many
changes wrought with the 3.5 revisions. Further,
we have added exciting new material to make the
Ravenloft setting even more enticing than and
different from any other campaign world. Charac-
terclasses have been altered toreflect the particular

 

 

2

atmosphere of the Ravenloft setting, along with
changes to some spells and feats. New information
has been collected and disseminated herein. These
are in addition to the systemic changes in the
Dungeons & Dragons version 3.5 rules, which has
cleaned up murky rulings, made significant changes
of its own and fixed what was formerly broken.

As with the previous edition, it is our intent
that whole campaigns be played within the
Ravenloft setting. While the Realm of Dread can
work for a “weekend in hell” for outlanders, the
setting has been made more internally consistent
and suitable for extended games. It is, by nature, a
darker world this time around, but still evocative of
the fantasy environment. While the focus is not on
introspection or florid horror, we do hope that you
occasionally jump or cringe at Ravenloft’s terrors
as you gather around the table to play. It is a world
of Gothic adventure, ready for your heroes to brave
its dangers. Much less emphasis is placed on getting
in and going home; this edition presumes that your
exploits in Ravenloft occur on a much longer-term
scale.

Row to Use Chis Book

You now hold the Ravenloft Player’s Hand-

book for the d20 System, version 3.5. Itcontains all
the guidelines you need to play in a Ravenloft
campaign or to apply its Gothic atmosphere to any
setting of your own creation. You need the Revised
Third Editions of the Player's Handbook, Dungeon
Master’s Guide and Monster Manual to make full
use of these new rules.
If you plan to run a Ravenloft campaign, you
find the Ravenloft Dungeon Master®’s Guide
and the upcoming Denizens of Dread, both com-
patible with the 3.5 versions of the d20 System,
useful as well. The Ravenloft Dungeon Master’s
Guide is filled with forbidden lore for the DM,
including campaign suggestions, magic items, pres-
tige classes and prophesy, while the Denizens of
Dread is a compendium of the most chilling and
lethal creatures known to lurk in Ravenloft’s misty
realms.

Chapter by Chapter

This chapter introduces the Ravenloftsetting,
including a lexicon of common terms used in
Ravenloft campaigns.

Chapter Two: Player Characters provides all
the changes needed to reshape heroes for Gothic
adventures. This chapter also introduces a new

 

 
