 

   

race, the giomorgo, and new skills, feats, religions
and equipment.

Chapter Three: Ways of the World offers the
game rules that form the foundation of Gothic
adventure campaigns. These include new rules for
fear, horror and madness; laying curses of ven-
geance; powers checks; and the changes to spells
and magic items.

Chapter Four: The Dread Realms provides a
player’s guide to more than forty of the domains
that compose the world of Ravenloft.

Chapter Five: Horrors of the Night offers
expanded rules for the most infamous creatures
known to haunt the Realm of Dread, from vam-
pires tolycanthropes to hags. A DM uses these rules
to ensure that her players never know exactly what
to expect from their foes. This chapter also details
Ravenloft’s mysterious gypsies, the Vistani.

Chapter Six: The Ravenloft Campaign offers
advice to players and DMs on how to explore the
themes and concepts inherent to Gothic adven-
tures.

The Gothic Mystique

t might be said that the Gothic novel is a
primitive detective story in which Deity or
Fate is the detective.

—E.F. Bleiler, editor, Three Gothic
Novels

 

 

 

 

Imagine a scene set in an earlier age, resem-
bling a highly romanticized version of our own
medieval era. It is a world still beholden to ancient
superstitions. A meager handful of valorous young
men and women explores an ancient ruin, seeking
to uncover the sinister web of mystery locked
within its maze of secret passageways. In these
shadowed halls, our heroes face many supernatural
threats — but none are so terrible as the powerful
and corrupt master of the keep, who sits at the
center of both the ruin and its mystery.

These images, familiar to any dungeon-crawler
in modern fantasy roleplaying, first burst to literary
life with the birth of the Gothic genre in the late
18th century. The father of this genre was Horace
Walpole, a dilettante author enraptured with his
romantic vision of the Middle Ages. Hisnovel, The
Castle of Otranto, laid the thematic foundation
that all early Gothic novels would closely observe.

 

  

 

 

 

Early Gothic Tales

Early Gothic novels were tales of mystery,
romance and brooding horror. They were typically
set in earlier times, though their authors were more
concerned with instilling an atmosphere of deca-
dence and decay than with achieving any sense of
historical accuracy. At the heart of these early tales
sat the vast and crumbling Gothic castles that gave
the genre its name. These ancient citadels were
more than mere scenery. Their slow descent into
picturesque ruin reflected the spiritual decay of
their masters, their secret passages spoke of ancient
mysteries, and the specters that walked their halls
decried old crimes, neither avenged nor forgotten.

 

The master of the castle — and villain of the
tale — was a murderer and usurper who had unwit-
tingly sacrificed all hope forhappiness ina relentless,
Faustian pursuit for knowledge, power or pleasure.
The protagonist paled in comparison, usually as-
suming the role of a lovely and innocent young
maiden imperiled by the villain’s desires, ora brave
young man laid low by a stolen birthright.

Gothic tales were infused with an atmosphere
of supernatural dread. Ancestral curses and mourn-
ful ghosts manipulated events and eroded the
characters’ sanity. Unnatural deformities such as
scars, strange birthmarks, or hunched backs turned
men into monsters, apparent punishments for the
crimes of their fathers. Gothic tales evoked subtle
horrors, deriving terror from foreboding, not gore
— the knowledge that the coming sunset will free
a vampire from its crypt, not the grisly details of a
werewolf’s rampage. Indeed, the supernatural was
presented so subtly in early Gothic novels that it
was often explained away entirely once the tale’s
central mystery was resolved. In the brightness of
day, ghosts became tricks of the light; eerie crea-
tures became mad hermits.

 

 

 

  

One supernatural presence could not be de-
nied. Behind the scenes, the forces of divine Good
and Evil dueled to drive the tale to its conclusion.
Most early Gothic tales adhered rigidly to the same
story arc. The tyrannical villain has committed a
terrible crime and escaped justice, but his sins have
made his existence corrupt and hollow. The inno-
centyoung protagonists arrive in the villain’s realm.
Incensed by their purity, or fearing that they will
expose his guilt, the villain persecutes the young
innocents. As the tale unfolds twists of fate and
spectral interlopers reveal the villain’s crimes and
the young hero’s stolen birthright. It is the villain’s
own foul deeds and the divine forces of justice —

S
