 

far more than the hapless protagonists — that drive
the villain to his final ruin. In the end, allcrimesare
avenged, evil devours itself, and true love emerges
victorious.

Che Late Gothic Cradition

The Gothic genre blossomed in the early nine-
teenth century. New generations of authors broke
through the rigid formula of the early Gothics,
adding layers to Otranto’s foundation. The hapless
protagonists of the early tales were pushed aside,
now serving as mere witnesses to the villain’s
downfall. The Gothic genre now belonged to the
villains: sophisticated antiheroes both repellent
and compelling, possessed of amazing potential
squandered through painfully common mortal flaws.
Such Gothic villains included Victor Franken-
stein, whose hubris doomed his divine ambitions,
and the caliph Vathek, who pursued his lust for
power into an Arabian hell.

The nebulous curses and haunts of the early
tales now became all too real. The later Gothic
authors reinterpreted ancient legends to invent
archetypical new horrors. Mary Shelley created the
flesh golem, giving life to the dangers and respon-
sibilities of parenthood. John Polidori modeled the

 
 

aristocratic and charismatic vampire
‘ociate, the famed poet Lord Byron.
The ghosts and ghouls of the Gothic tradition
were, above all else, allegorical doppelganger
reflections of human evil. When Frankenstein
rejected his monster, he rejected the terrible con-
sequences of his own profane actions. Those same
deeds would return to haunt him in the form of his

 

forlorn creation.

Che Victorian Revival

As the 19th century continued, the Gothic
tradition writhed beyond its roots. As the genre
came to a close, Edgar Allan Poe added tales of
dementia and obsession, and in “The Murders in
the Rue Morgue” carried the Gothic sense of un-
natural dread into his new creation: the “consulting
detective.”

The Gothic genre flared to life once more at
the century's end. New authors applied the societal
fears of their day to the old staples. The burgeoning
fields of evolution and psychology threatened to
prove man no more than a beast wrapped in the
thin veneer of civilization. From these fears of
repressed passion and self-betrayal come Dorian
Gray, who hid a portrait of his true depravity; Dr.

 
