 

   

Moreau, who sought to make men of beasts and a
deity of himself; and Dr. Jekyll, whose struggle with
suppressed savagery would form the foundation of
the Gothic werewolf.

As the 19th century gave way to the 20th, one
aspect of the early Gothic tradition started to make
an unexpected comeback: the hero. The protago-
nists of Bram Stoker’s Dracula pursued their
immortal foe across Europe to end his evil unlife.
The consulting detective came home to create
“occult detectives” such as Le Fanu’s General
Spielsdorf, Stoker’s Van Helsing, Blackwood’s John
Silence and Hodgson’s Carnacki. These characters
studied the occult not in the pursuit of personal
power, but to combat its evil — these virtuous
scholars plunged their Faustian counterparts deeper
into darknes:

With his tales of the Puritan witch-hunter
Solomon Kane, Robert E. Howard even carried the
Gothic staples into the fantastic worlds of pulp
adventure, the same gentes of swords and sorcery
that would one day spawn fantasy roleplaying.

To the Grave and Back

As the 20th century dawned, the horror genre
advanced. The Gothic tradition gave way to the
weird tales of authors such as H. P. Lovecraft, who
retained a Gothic aura of decay while creating
fearsome alien entities, reflecting asociety humbled
by scientific discovery and the inhumanity of the
Great War. Vampires, ghosts and werewolves were
soon dismissed as threadbare clichés.

But they always come back. A few decades
passed, and then the Gothic tradition burst back
into the world, like Mr. Hyde too long repressed.
With each Gothic revival, new writers twisted the
old archetypes, applying the anxieties of their age.
Every era has a disease that can walk in a vampire’s
shoes; every generation has seen the cautionary
tales of Frankenstein and Moreau come one step
closer to reality.

The Gothic genre refuses to lie quiet in the
grave. Its horrors — vampires, madmen, ghosts —
continue to resonate within us because they are us.

 

   

 

  

 

 

We invite you now into a world of Gothic
adventure where innocence battles corruption,
where love destroys and redeems, where magic
cannot overcome morality and where divine jus-
tice comes to all.

 

 

=e a 24
Che Realm of Dread

vil is... a moral entity and not a created

one, aneternal and nota perishable entity:
) itexisted before the world; it constituted the

monstrous, the execrable being who was

also to fashion such a hideous world. It will
hence exist after the creatures that people this world.

—Marquis De Sade, L’ Histoire de Juliette, oules
Prosperites du Vice

Ravenloft is a world unlike any other. It is a
construct, an artificial pocket realm endlessly prowl-
ing the trackless Ethereal Plane. The implacable
Dark Powers crafted their realm from the hidden
fears of the innumerable worlds of the Material
Plane, and shape reality to reflect their sinister
sensibilities.

 

 

This section introduces the core concepts of
the Ravenloft setting; further details can be found
in Chapter Three.

Cenets of Cerror

On the surface, the Realm of Dread seems
much like any low-magic setting (see Chapter 5 in
the DMG and Chapter Three in the Ravenloft
Dungeon Master’s Guide) found on the Material
Plane. Spellcasters are rare, and common folk
seldom witness the supernatural, understanding it
only through folklore (though that folklore is fright-
eningly prevalent). However, few of Ravenloft’s
denizens know that the natural laws of their world
have been insidiously rewritten.

Good and Evil

Spell effects that detect ethical alignment
(alignment on the law-chaos axis) perform nor-
mally, but no magic can directly detect moral
alignment (alignment on the good-evil axis). By
shielding evil, the Dark Powers force mortals to
relyon their own judgment. Although some people
in Ravenloft come to dismiss the concept of abso-
lute morality as an antiquated myth, Good and Evil
remain vital and omnipresent, locked in eternal
struggle. Characters who preserve their innocence
are subtly protected from the forces of darkness,
while those who commit evil acts risk falling to
these eldritch powers, their minds and bodiesslowly
warping to reflect their inner corruption. People
who wholly embrace the lures of evil may eventu-
ally find themselves trapped in prisons of their own
making.
