  

Necromancy and the Undead

Forces that tap into the corrupting power of
the Negative Energy Plane are potent and perilous
in Ravenloft. The vile undead — creatures trapped
in a twisted mockery of life — become more pow-
erful and are often shielded from magic that would
reveal their true nature. Those who dare command
the undead must take care, for with increased
power comes increased resistance to control.

Necromantic spells are similarly enhanced,
but few forces carry greater risks of tainting the
caster’s soul than those that disrupt the natural
cycle of life and death or deny the spirits of the dead
their final reward.

Divination

The Realm of Dread does not easily surrender
its mysteries. Divination is untrustworthy in
Ravenloft. Magic that would reveal a creature’s
true nature, portend future events or reveal the
desires of the deities often produces skewed results
oreven fails entirely. Only the Vistani, a nomadic,
gypsylike race, can reliably reveal the future’s se-
crets, and they only reveal such to others for their
own mysterious reasons.

Cravel

The Ravenloft Mists often cause travelers to
lose their way, or they abandon them in strange
lands. Even magical forms of transportation must
contend with the Mists’ misdirection. Only power-
ful magic can transport subjects from one domain
to another, and not even the most powerful of
spells can grant escape from a closed domain. (See
Domains, below.) The Mists even restrict planar
travel: unless the Mists allow it, no force short of a
major artifact or the direct intervention of a deity
can provide passage to other planes.

Che Near Ethereal

Although characters in Ravenloft cannot
readily travel to other planes, they can reach the
Ethereal. Even then, these travelers can access
only the Near Ethereal — the border between the
Deep Ethereal and other planes — like waders on
the shores of a vast and bottomless ocean.
Ravenloft’s Near Ethereal is a realm of restless
spirits, its landscape shaped by the lingering pas-
sions of the living.

 

 

Domains

The Realm of Dread is composed of scores of
small pocket “nations” not too far removed from
planes themselves, like the cells ofa honeycomb —
or the cells of a prison. Each of these artificially
constructed countries, called domains, is the prison
ofasingular evil entity: its darklord. A domain may
stand alone, an “Island of Terror” surrounded by
the Mists of Ravenloft, or it may join seamlessly
with other domains in clusters to form a continu-
ous landscape.

Every aspect of a domain, from its climate to
the creatures that call it home, isa subtle reflection
of its darklord, offering painful reminders of the
transgressions that forged the darklord’s doom.
The size of a domain may range from a single room,
toa lonesome manor and its grounds, to an expan-
sive dominion containing numerous towns and a
thriving culture. Some occult sages believe that a
domain’s size may be a measure of the darklord’s
force of personality, his squandered potential, or
even of the tragedy of his tale. However, the Dark
Powers may grant a less compelling darklord a vast
but sparsely populated domain, furthering his iso-
lation, or they may trap a powerful darklord in a
smaller domain, concentrating his evil.

 

 

Domain Borders

In regions made up of mote than one domain,
the edges of a domain may be recognized as politi-
cal boundaries, or they may be indicated only by
physical landmarks —a brook, perhaps, or the edge
of a forest. In some cases, however, a traveler may
have no way to tell that she has crossed into a new
den of evil.

Even worse, that traveler may find escape
impossible, even if freedom is just a few paces away.
Almost all darklords can close the borders of their
domains at will; if a darklord cannot close his
domain, the cause often lies in the nature of the
curse that binds him to the land. When a darklord
closes his domain, immensely powerful supernatu-
ral effects manifest at the borders to prevent passage.
Asan example, many travelers in Ravenloft have
heard tales of the poisonous vapors that sometimes
surround Barovia, choking anyone who attempts
toleave. Nomortal magic can overcome the effects
of a closed domain border, nor can a dice throw.

 
