 

   

Che Mists of Ravenloft

Thick fog blankets the melancholy moor of a
Gothic tale, confounding travelers and washing
away the world. A film of vapor seeps along the
headstones of a graveyard, concealing hidden dan-
gers. In Ravenloft, these Mists assume a life of their
own. The Ravenloft Mists act as the claws of the
Dark Powers. Every child in Ravenloft knows of
the Misty Border, the churning walls of Mist that
surround and isolate domains and clusters.

A traveler who enters the Misty Border hop-
ing to reach another domain quickly finds herself
engulfed by a netherworld of obscuring white fog.
Even the ground beneath her feet fades away.
Ibiectipfaneldivancebecome memninplen Un.
ies atraveler usesalMistway(acurentinthetlow
of the Mists) or is escorted by the Vistani or a
powerful anchorite (a cleric of a goddess said to
have merged with the Mists), she has no control
over where the Mists deposit her.

 

 

The Mists can even rob time of its meaning.
Within the Misty Border, night blends seamlessly
into day, and no turning of the moon occurs.
Legends are told of travelers who emerged from the
Mists weeks or years after — or even before — they
entered.

 

 

The Mists are not limited to the netherworld

 

between domains. They can appear anywhere and
at any time in Ravenloft, boiling up from the earth
to snatch up creatures and place them where they
will. Rumors also speak of more insidious appear-
ances by the Mists. Whispered tales tell of folk who
wandered lost for days in a small grove of trees, or
of back alleys that became twisting labyrinths, or of
a house that contained more rooms than it physi-
cally could. People who encounter this
phenomenon are said to be “Mist-led.” Opinions
differ on whether the Mists disorient these folk by
fogging their senses or by imposing true, ephemeral
changes to reality.

  

 

    

Regardless of how the Mists manifest, when
they come, no force can stop them.

The Mists appear as a bogeyman in countless
legends. Ravenloft’s folk blame any bad luck on the
meddling of the Mists and often refer to the Misty
Border as the World’s-End Mists or the Mists of
Death. The Misty Border is the legendary home of
countless unfathomable horrors.

At the best guess of sages and scholars, the
Mists are a manifestation of the Near Ethereal,
strands of the cobweb that binds the Realm of
Dread — but the Mists are indistinguishable from

 
