 

 

 
     
  

   

 
       

normal banks of fog, even under magical scrutiny.
The Mists may also take other subtle forms. For
example, in deserts they often appear as clouds of
dust or rippling waves of heat; in lands cloaked by
winter, they may appear as blinding snowstorms.

Even the merest ripple in a calm sea may indicate
a parting — or closing — of the Mists.

 

Outlanders and Other Worlds

Rayenloresincilar folky have anatiy
© equivalence terms for “outlanders,” travelers
who hail from foreign domains beyond the
{ Misty Border. On rare occasions, these strag-
peerage nunpeibere come tart
lands beyond the Realm of Dread.

The Mists can stretch their tendrils
into any world with ties to the Ethereal
Be ee Lreeceteunetertoutlendeniicay
creature that has been drawn into Ravenloft
from one of these worlds. The Mists usually
reach into other worlds to snatch up evildo-
J ers; indeed, many darklords are rumored to}

be outlanders. The domains of these out-
y lander darklords are often reminiscent of —
other worlds on the Material Plane. }
{ Although no one truly knows why, the
{ Mists sometimes draw other folk into /
4 Ravenloft as well, be they hapless bystand- 7
ers or mighty heroes. Ifthe DM approves, )
}
;

 

  

elt
—
ey gine

players can create outlander player charac-

{ ters. Outlanders are rare, but they have no

\ special advantages or penalties in relation ?
{ to native characters. ia
{
Le iy

 

Masques

Whether ordained by the Dark Powers or not,
occasionally, some force from Ravenloft reaches
out to interact with and influence other worlds in
ways different from the norm. The Mists may
project an aura of evil over a land not of Ravenloft,
stretch out a domain to overlap an existing world
on the Material Plane or release an entity to bring
corruption to such a land. Such occurrences are
knowns Masques. While extremely rare, a Masque
can change any world it touches, altering the very
fabric of reality to conform to whatever differences
the Mists bring and changing that world’s future
forever.

a fran ae

 

 

  
 
    

ps ey

 

The phenomenon received its name from the
masques and the masked balls popular among the
nobility of some Ravenloft domains. Masques are
theatrical productions, often ones that feature con-
voluted plotlines that incorporate mistaken
identities, secret relationships, hidden treasures
and dangerous tricks, magical or otherwise. Occa-
sionally, the supernatural formsa significant part of
the story, with family curses, strange birthrights,
hidden agendas, long-lost inheritances and star-
crossed love affairs leading the way in popularity.

Masked balls also figure into the equation
because of their nature — those attending such
entertainment wear masks, sometimes even elabo-
rate costumes — usually meant to delight, but also
to confuse, trick or frighten the other attendees.
Though it’s often the case that many of those
attending recognize their friends and neighbors,
this isn’t always so. One of the points of such
masquerades is fooling others and being unrecog-
nizable to those who may see you every day in
ordinary clothing. The greatest benefit toa masked
ball, however, lies in the ability of those who have
adopted successful disguises to engage in intrigue
and seduction without being unmasked.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

  

These themes intertwine throughout the land
wherever a Masque occurs. Whatever a world’s
former culture and society, it alters to conform to
the new pattern laid over it by the Mists. Once a
Masque takes effect, where there was nature, there
now exists the supernatural, magical knowledge
changes to dangerous sorcery and any power be-
comes sinister and suspect. The culture may
ssentially stay the same, yet becomes oddly twisted,
tainted by the touch of the Mists and usually left
with some great power to oversee its continued
existence. Most people in such masked worlds
never realize that things were ever different. Their
memories alter to fit the changes wrought.

 

 

 

Yet, always there are some, a few who see
through the deceptions, who disbelieve the lies.
Whether the patterning is flawed or incomplete in
some way, a few souls sense the truth. These brave
people become heroes battling the terrible powers
left behind to rule their now-tainted world.

While it is unknown whether any within
Ravenloft’s borders know any lore concerning
Masques other than that they are rumored to exist,
it is thought that there have been at least two such
Masques that occurred within the Dread Realm’s
history. The Masque of the Red Death isthoughtto
have affected a world of a cultural level unknown

 
