 

to the Land of Mists, while the Masque of the Jade
Dragon is believed to have occurred in a strange,
exotic land where mythic creatures of ancient
legend once ruled.

Masques provide ways to take Ravenloft into
new dimensions, creating the perfect vehicle for
using the system in crossover games of all types.
Theoretically, it’s possible to utilize Ravenloft and
Masques to flavor any setting, from the most savage
to a high-tech horror chronicle set in outer space.
While some skills, feats, weapons and spells might
need adjustments, the essence of the game —
Gothic horror — would still infuse the setting,
bringing to it a style and character recognizable to
fans of Ravenloft. Characters used to their own
worlds find new challenges and unexpected devel-
opmentsasa Masque sweeps their worldand changes
everything they thought they knew. Conversely,
characters from Ravenloft may somehow obtain
their escape from the Land of Dread only to find
themselves in unfamiliar territory where every-
thing is different but the threats and dangers remain
dishearteningly familiar. Even mixing two such
groups could happen when the Mists creep stealth-
ily across the lands with the evils of Ravenloft
drawn in their wake.

Note: Though DMs and players can utilize the

concept themselves, the first Masque setting for
version 3.5 — a complete reworking of Masque of
the Red Death (originally published in 1994) —will
debut in 2004

Darklords

Darklords are the seed of evil at the heart of
every domain, but few of Ravenloft’s denizens are
aware they exist. Heroes have no infallible means
of detecting who or what is the darklord of any
given domain. Some darklords control their do-
mains openly, actingas political rulers, while others
skulk in the shadows, their very existence a secret
Indeed, the very concept of a “darklord” isn’t one
that the average citizen of Ravenloft is aware of.

 

Most domains are inhabited by a single
darklord, though on rare occasions the Dark Pow-
ers may grant a single domain to a small group of
evildoers. These darklords are usually linked both
by blood ties and their crimes.

Mindless, slavering beasts do not become
darklords. Mere evil is not enough to earn a do-
main. Despite their corruption, darklords share the
same motivations as countless other folk: they
hope for love, crave respect or even yearn for

 
