 

   

acceptance. Yet, darklords are not poor, misunder-
stood souls damned through no fault of their own.
Their selfish natures pervert simple wants into
obsessive lusts, and they earn theirdomains through
committing horrid crimes. Darklords are all the
more monstrous for the empathy one might feel for
them, not in spite of it. Even when forced to face
their transgressions, most darklords remain obsti-
nately blind to their own failings, lashing out at the
world for perceived wrongs.

A darklord is both the warden and the ulti-
mate prisoner of his domain. A darklord can trap
others in his domain by closing the borders, but he
can never leave. Some of Ravenloft’s darklords
have spent centuries striving to escape from their
Mist-veiled prisons, to no avail. The curse that
binds them to the land offers them little rest; not
unlike Tantalus in the underworld, they are tor-
mented by their greatest desires.

Should a darklord be destroyed, his domain
ceases to serve a purpose. Ifanother evil creature in
the domain has earned damnation, the Dark Pow-
ers may appoint it the domain’s new darklord.
Lacking an obvious ruler, adomain ina cluster may
be absorbed by its neighbors, expanding the prisons
of other darklords. Ifneither of these events occurs,
the domain dissolves back into the Mists from
whence it came.

Che Dark Powers

The Dark Powers are the ultimate masters of
the Realm of Dread, and its ultimate mystery. They
have created an entire world in their own image,
but not even the most powerful divinatory magic
can unveil their true nature. Few of Ravenloft’s
denizens are aware that the Dark Powers exist,
blaming sinister events on the Mists or their dei-
ties. Occult scholars who try to pry open the Dark
Powers’ secrets typically end up pursuing the phan-
toms of their own minds.

What are the Dark Powers? Are they true
entities or something more akin to an elemental
force? Mystics have proposed that they may be a
banished pantheon of deities, or strange and an-
cient foes of the deities, or even some dark aspect
of the divine subconscious. Some philosophers
have even claimed that the Dark Powers do not
exist, that they are actually a sentient manifesta-
tion ofhumansin. None of these theories isanything
more than idle speculation, however.

Are the Dark Powers many or few? This book
refers to them in the plural, but this is a mere

2

 

 

 

convenience. If the Dark Powers include multiple
entities, do they act as a unified whole, or are they
fractious? Does the same force both punish and
empower evil, or are the Dark Powers locked in an
internal struggle between light and darkness?

This in turn leads to the greatest mystery
surrounding the Dark Powers: are they good or evil?
Some sages point to the outlander darklords. The
Dark Powers have forever imprisoned these foul
villains in realms of eternal perdition. The Dark
Powers never actively seduce the righteous into
evil; they merely react to those who have already
succumbed to inner wickedness. The Dark Powers
do not behave like demons; they do not corrupt
souls through malicious trickery. In this sense, the
Dark Powers are a force of austere justice, reserving
their cruelty for the cruel.

 

 

Other sages, however, claim that the torment
the Dark Powers inflict on darklords merely drives
those villains into an agonized frenzy, inflaming
their corruption. Perhaps the Dark Powers seek to
raise an army of darkness to one night unleash on
the Material Plane. In this context, the Dark
Powers are a sadistic engine of suffering.

What of the innocents caught in the Dark
Powers’ clutches? What of the villagers who fall
prey to the horrors of the night, or the heroes who
must do battle with the forces of evil? Do the Dark
Powers delight in watching the destruction of
innocence, or do they flaunt these pure souls in the
faces of the darklords as reminders of the path not
taken?

Are the Dark Powers good or evil? Are they
deities or monsters? What is the ultimate goal of
their grand and awful experiment? The truth may
transcend mortal comprehension.

     

Nistory

istory has many cunning passages, con-
trived corridors
( And issues, deceives with whispering
ambitions,
Guides us by vanities.

—T.S. Eliot, “Gerontion”

The study of Ravenloft’s past can prove a
maddening exercise. When a new domain forms in
the Mists, its denizens appear with complete memo-
ries of full lives, and their culture may record a
history that stretches back centuries before the
domain’s actual creation. Whether these false his-
tories are real and drawn from other worlds or

 
