   

entirely fabricated by the Dark Powers is a matter
best left to the philosophers.

Through long tradition, most lands of the
Realm of Dread have adopted the Barovian calen-
dar (BC) to mark the passing of the years. This
book does the same. Isolated domains, such as
those found in clusters or Islands of Terror, may still
track time through their own reckoning.

Pre-351: Che Cime Before

The true origins of the Realm of Dread remain
a mystery. Vistani legends, as well as numerous
creation myths, suggest that the Dark Powers and
theirsinister realm may be as ancient as dread itself.
Though at times contradictory, common themes
hint that the Realm of Dread may have existed for
eons, forever ebbing and flowing in an eternal cycle
of expansion and decay. If so, then the creation of
the domain of Barovia merely marked the birth of
a new cycle of torment — and the death of what-
ever came before.

However, the few sages who delve into
Ravenloft’s arcane origins note that no reliable
record of adomain predating the creation of Barovia
has ever been found. In their opinion, the creation
of the Realm of Dread can be traced back some four
hundred years to a single world on the Material
Plane. Little is now known about this world beyond
the name of one of its kingdoms: Barovia.

According to Barovian records, Strahd von
Zarovich was born in the year 299 BC. As the
eldest son in an aristocratic line, he obeyed tradi-
tion and entered the military as a child, rising
steadily in the ranks.

In the same year Strahd became a general, a
horde of pillaging barbarians, the Tergs, invaded
Barovia and drove Strahd’s family from their an-
cestral lands. Strahd rallied the tattered Barovian
forces, driving the Tergs back in a grueling and
bloody conflict that lasted decades. Strahd’s youth
had long since been spent by the time his weary
army defeated the last of the Terg warlords. As the
noble houses of Barovia struggled to rebuild from
their homelands, Strahd claimed sovereignty over
the lands he had liberated from the Tergs as his
reward and settled into the mountain fortress of the
last Terg, dubbing it Castle Ravenloft.

Count Strahd’s new subjects hailed him as a
conquering hero, but the decades of war and the
endless parade of death had hardened Strahd’s
heart. His reign, like his war-torn life, heldno room
for compassion.

Strahd called for his scattered relatives to join
him at Castle Ravenloft and reestablish the proud
von Zarovich lineage. It was then that Strahd first
met his youngest brother, Sergei, a handsome and
charming cleric a full quarter-century his junior. In
Sergei, Strahd saw himself before the coming of the
Tergs, and for the first time, he began to ponder his
lost youth.

While living at Castle Ravenloft, Sergei meta
local villager named Tatyana, a young woman as
full of life and beauty as himself. Their love was
immediate and pure. Sergei brought Tatyana to
Strahd, announced their plans to wed and asked for
his eldest brother’s blessing.

Sergei’s words struck Strahd a more crippling
blow than that dealt by any Terg warrior. Strahd
was immediately enraptured with the simple girl,
but she loved only Sergei, treating Strahd like a
father. Tatyana’s grace confronted Strahd with all
the pleasures of life that war had denied him, and
her love for Sergei tormented Strahd with his
squandered youth. A desperate hatred for Sergei
flared to life in Strahd’s heart.

This was when Strahd made his pact with
death, as recorded in The Tome of Strahd. Strahd’s
account of the doomed wedding is largely accurate,
but it neglects a few vital facts. One of the many
guests invited to Castle Ravenloft was Leo Dilisnya,
patriarch of a mercantile family still struggling to
recover after the war. His entourage came to the
wedding concealing crossbows, plotting to eradi-
cate the rival von Zarovich line.

  

The moment Strahd murdered Sergei with an
assassin’s blade, strange mists descended on Castle
Ravenloft and flowed across the land, forming the
domain of Barovia. When Strahd expressed his
love to Tatyana, confessing his crime, she fled from
him in horror, throwing herself from the castle
walls. As Strahd watched her fall, Leo's assassins
launched their attack — but Strahd’s bloody pact
had forever freed him from the indignity of death.
As the poison-tipped bolts pierced his body, his
heart ceased to beat and he became a vampire. All
his hopes destroyed, Strahd had nothing left but
fury. He rampaged through the castle, slaughtering
guests and assassinsalike. By dawn, nota single soul
was left alive within the castle walls. The Realm of
Dread was born.

351-469: A Private Rell
The domain of Barovia originally existed asan
Island of Terror, alone in the Mists. Few records
