   

 
 
 
       

 

tS}
survive from this time. Strahd retreated from pub-
lic life, and many Barovian villagers came to believe
that he too had died. The few survivors of the
m re scattered throughout the domain, set-
tling into new lives. Strahd spent the century
learning the limits of his Mist-bound prison and
adapting to undeath.

Strahd also spent these years hunting down
the traitorous Leo Dilisnya, who had excused him-
self early from the wedding, claiming illness.
According to some tales, Strahd finally found the
wizened Leo hiding in a remote monastery, nearly
five decades after the ill-fated wedding. Most ac-
counts agree that, wherever Leo Dilisnya is now,
his torment has never ended. Leo’s family survived,
however. To this day, the Dilisnya name is re-
nowned for cunning and infamous for duplicity.

 

 

470-546: Outlanders Arrive

As the decades wore on, the insular Barovians
took note of the occasional appearance of outland-
ers, strangers from beyond the Mists. Most of these
stragglers were simple, lost wanderers. Some of
these folk adapted to their new home, but others
struggled to return to their own worlds. The latter
usually disappeared. Perhaps they found their way
home, but most Barovians believe they simply fell
prey to the unnatural predators that lurk in the
Barovian night. One group of powerful outlander
heroes asmulted Castle Ravenloft, believing they
could destroy the evil within. They were never
seen again, their fates all too clear.

A few of these outlanders retain historical
significance. The first of these new arrivals were
the enigmatic tribes of the Vistani. According to
legend, they first appeared at the stroke of mid-
night separating the years 469 and 470. The Vistani
were soon feared and respected for their sixth sense
and command over the Mists. The Vistani’s leader,
the wizened Madame Eva, soon forged an alliance
with Count Strahd —a pact based on mutual need,
not respect.

A few years after the arrival of the Vistani, a
young boy named Martyn Pelkar emerged from the
Svalich woods, claiming that a luminous, sylvan
being had rescued him from the beasts that had
slaughtered his parents. Though often dismissed as
a madman, Pelkar would spend the rest of his life
establishing what is today known as the Cult of the
Morninglord.

The last of these significant outlanders is
Azalin, a powerful wizard who emerged from the

 

 

 

 

2

2gyrn,

7 Aa = a
¥ rR oe Ravenloft -——f2 oy

 

 

 
 

Mists in the sixth century. As with many outland-
ers before him, Azalin was obsessed with the goal of
escaping Barovia. Strahd and Azalin formed a
cautious alliance, and for the next four decades,
Azalin—who now tules the kingdom of Darkon —
dwelled in a remote tower overlooking Lake
Zarovich, scrutinizing the planar fabric of the Land
of Mists.

547-587: Che Gxpanding Stain

After suffering nearly two centuries of isola-
tion, Barovia was finally joined by new domains.
Forlorn was the first to appear, melding with
Barovia’s southern border to form the first cluster.
Curious Barovian explorers ventured into this new
land, only to retreat from its twisted, inhuman
inhabitants. Three decades later, the domain of
Arak materialized to the northeast. Unlike mon-
strous Forlorn, Arak was home to several human.
towns, where the denizens told tales of dark elves
and evil fey. The Barovians took their first, falter-
ing steps toward trade, and the Barovian cluster
began to grow into what would soon be called the
Core.

In the autumn of 579, Mordent appeared to
the west of Barovia, and the Core now had a
coastline. Legends claim that Mordent’s sudden
appearance was somehow connected to Azalin and
Strahd, who were attempting to open a portal to
another world. Mordentish folklore claims that
both men visited their lands, where they became
embroiled with the fate of a human alchemist and
his Apparatus, a terrible artifact said to be able to
rend and exchange mortal souls. Whether or not
these tales contain any truth, Azalin and Strahd
did finally end their fractious alliance soon after.
Azalin entered the Mists and claimed a new do-
main, Darkon. The appearance of this vast land
doubled the size of the Core.

Late in the sixth century, a blasted wasteland
— the domain of Bluetspur — joined the Core near
Forlorn. Half-mad human refugees fled into Barovia,
doubling the population of Immol, and claimed
their homes had been destroyed by a race of alien,
brain-stealing entities. The southern lands of the
Core became notorious as the realm of monsters.

Deeper in the Mists, new Islands of Terror
appeared, including the desert realms of Har’Akir
and Sebua and the foggy city of Paridon. The folk
of most of these domains would go decades before
learning that other lands lay beyond their Misty
Borders.

 

 
