 

The fourth century closed with an event of
horrendous devastation that would be unmatched
until the Requiem. In the spring of 588, a massive
and violent sandstorm suddenly roiled to life in
Arak’s mountain passes. By the time the storm died
out, all surface life in Arak had been destroyed. The
storm altered Arak’s landscape, transplanting
Mount Lament miles to the west to form the
domain of Keening. Both of these desolate regions
were deemed cursed and have been shunned by
sensible travelers ever since.

The century following the Scourge of Arak
was marked by explosive growth, A dozen new
domains joined the Core, sprouting like tumors,
and were matched by just as many Islands of Terror.
The Mists withdrew to reveal the Sea of Sorrows,
leading to the steady trade of goods and ideas
between Mordent, Lamordia and Darkon and ush-
ering the northwestern Core into a new age of
enlightenment.

After having been scattered to the winds, the
Dilisnya family gathered in the new domain of
Borea and reestablished their economic might.
One of their number —Yakov Dilisnya — claimed
to be the messenger of a divine guardian and
founded the Church of Ezra. By the end of the fifth
century the first clerics of the Lawgiver, Ezra’s most
powerful rival faith, would establish their church as
the state religion of Nova Vaas:

In the dying decade of the fifth century, an
outlander named Vlad Drakov appeared in western
Darkon, massacring several villages before Azalin’s
forces drove his mercenaries into the Mists. The
new domain of Falkovnia appeared, and the next
era of Ravenloft’s history began.

 

 

700-734: Dead Man's Campaign

The Realm of Dread continued to expand
during this era. Half a dozen new domains joined
the Core, including Dementlieu, which would
rapidly become the hub of northwestern culture,
and Sithicus, ruled by a skulking black knight
rumored to possess terrible powers. Political unrest
flared in several regions, as the rulers of both Borca
and Invidia met their ends at the hands of assassins,
and Nova Vaasa’s Prince Othmar seized illegal
control of his realm.

Yet, none of these events defined the era like
the Dead Man’s Campaign. Until Drakov appeared,
open warfare had been unknown in the Land of
Mists. Asthe sixth century began, however, Drakov

 

 

drove his armies into Darkon no fewer than four
times. Every invasion ended in crushing failure, as
Azalin’s undead minions effortlessly decimated the
Falkovnian ranks. Each defeat only intensified
Drakoy’s rage. Again and again, he marched his
citizens to the slaughter. By the end of the fourth
invasion, Falkovnia had lost thousands of its sons,
but Drakov had yet to claim a single foot of
Darkonian soil. Darkonians and Falkovnians alike
came to call Drakov’s failed conquests the Dead
Man’s Campaign — for only the dead had added to
their holdings.

Although no history book records it, another
event of quiet significance occurred in this era.
After a scheming Vistani clan and a sadistic vam-
pire destroyed his family, a humble Darkonian
doctor, Rudolph van Richten, dedicated his life to
combating the monstrous horrors of the night.
During the decades of his work, Dr. van Richten
would expose the weaknesses of Ravenloft’s hor-
rors and create a legacy of knowledge and wisdom.

 

735-740: Che Grand Conjunction

According to most accounts, the Vistani seer
Hyskosa first recorded his prophecy predicting a
cataclysmic “Grand Conjunction” in the year 735.
However, the Vistani do not seem to flow through
time as others do, and copies of “Hyskosa’s Hexad”
have been found dating back at least a century.
More certain is that Azalin learned of Hyskosa’s
omens in this year and in them saw an opportunity.
Still driven by his outlander desire to escape to his
home world, Azalin manipulated events over the
next five years to fulfill the prophecies and bring
the Grand Conjunction to premature fruition.

Vistani call Hyskosa a Dukkar: a male Vistana
born with the Sight and fated to bring destruction
to his people. When the Grand Conjunction was
triggered in the summer of 740, it threatened to
turn Ravenloft inside out. As the Land of Mists was
wracked by tremors and entire domains dissolved
into vapor, the Mists of Ravenloft spread through-
out the Material Plane to doom countless outlander
worlds.

Fortunately, Azalin’s manipulation of the natu-
ral order of events weakened the Grand
Conjunction enough to allow a band of adventur-
ers to cause its collapse. The Material Plane was
saved, but the Realm of Dread did not escape
unscathed. Core domains were wrenched into new
positions; rivers altered their courses; thestars even
changed their patterns. Several Core domains were

 
