absorbed by their neighbors: Darkon consumed
Arak, Borca merged with Dorvinia, Verbrek ab-
sorbed Arkandale, and Gundarak was divided
between Invidia and Barovia. Several domains
broke off from the Core to become Islands of Terror
or vice versa. The most startling effect, however,
was the creation of the Shadow Rift, a vast and
bottomless chasm that now lies where the Core
domains of G’Henna and Markovia once lay.
Even years later, most denizens of the Realm of
Dread still know nothing about the true events
behind the Grand Conjunction. Having seen only
the chaos it wrought, most people call it the Great
Upheaval and speculate wildly

 

s to its Cause.

741-749: Che Land Congeals
Most sages agree that the aftershocks of the
Grand Conjunction may still be subtly reshaping
the Land of Mists. This era was marked by the
Great Upheaval’s most visible aftereffects: the for-
mation of new clusters. The domains of Sri Raji,
Saragoss and the Wildlands were first, merging to
form the Verdurous Lands. In following years,
other domains would meld to create the Amber
Wastes, the Shadowlands, Zherisia and the Frozen
Reaches. Boatmen even claimed that a new sea was
forming in the Mists to the east of the Core.

 

 

 

Many folk began to warily reexamine their
roles in the world. Clerics in Tepest declared an
inquisition to wipe out the fey, blaming those
spirits for the apparent destruction of G’Henna and
Markovia. Clerics of Ezra in Darkon warned against
aprophesied Time of Unparalleled Darkness, when
all but the faithful would be destroyed in a flood of
evil. After having persecuted the use of arcane
magic in his realm for decades, the lord of Hazlan
suddenly reversed his position, establishing a school
of wizardry. The black knight of Sithicus is said to
have fallen into despair, never leaving his ruined
keep.

 

 

Political unrest emerged in the southern Core
again as Malocchio Aderre, decried by the Vistani
as a new Dukkar, suddenly appeared and seized
control of Invidia. Forging a military alliance with
Falkovnia, Aderre has since been sending his mer-
cenaries into neighboring domains to hunt the
Vistani, even when those neighbors threatened
armed reprisals.

Unseen by most, a secret society spread
throughout the northern Core, working toward
the terrible event that would end the era. This
cabal, the Ebon Fold, used enchanted daggers to
steal the souls of unwitting victims, then smuggled
the accumulated life force to its master, Azalin, still
