     

pursuing his dreams of escape. The Grim Harvest
would claim hundreds of lives before its conclu-
sion.

750-758: Che fall of Kings

After a decade of experimentation, Azalin
completed a magical artifact that would empower
him with the energy of thousands of stolen souls,
allowing him to finally burst free from the Realm of
Dread. At the stroke of midnight on the night of
the winter solstice in the year 750, during a reli-
gious ceremony called the Requiem, Azalin
activated the artifact in the heart of Darkon’s
largest city.

A wave of negative energy burst from the
artifact and expanded across all Darkon. Every
living creature within a mile of Il Aluk was in-
stantly slain and animated into undeath, and a
spiritual shroud settled over the kingdom. Azalin
vanished and was presumed slain. His throne re-
mained empty for years as local nobles squabbled
for control, and a spectral entity claiming to be
Death itself laid claim to Il Aluk.

Azalin was not the only public figure to fall.
The aged Rudolph van Richten had already van-
ished without a trace in the spring of 750, after
enjoying eight years of peaceful retirement. In the
autumn of 752, a mass of living, shrieking shadows
smashed into the keep of Sithicus’s ruler, destroy-
ing him. The knight's seneschal, a brutal dwarf
named Azrael, quickly seized control of his master’s
holdings. Lastly, in recent months, mystics and
seers have even claimed that a remote cluster, a
land said to have been locked in endless warfare,
had been destroyed by forces unknown.

As each crown fell, the fear of the populace
grew. More and more people gave credence to
doomsayers and the prophecy of the coming Ulti-
mate Darkness. A few sages have even speculated
that the planar cycle that started with the creation
of Barovia may have ended its period of expansion
and that the future will bring nothing but con-
tinual decay.

The Land of Mists isnot yet doomed, however.
Not all omens point toward destruction. Van
Richten’s legacy has not been forgotten. Gennifer
and Laurie Weathermay-Foxgrove have reprinted

 

 

———— ee 2 |

many of Van Richten’s Guides and formed a small
core of souls attempting to battle evil in the realms.
Norareall kings slain. Shortly after Azalin’s appar-
ent demise, Vlad Drakov invaded Darkon for the
first time in decades. The undead still rose to defeat
his armies, and legends emerged to claim that
Azalin was not truly gone. As the years passed,
more and more Darkonians received irregular vi-
sions of their fallen leader as he struggled to return
from beyond. Death also seemed to sense Azalin’s
presence and dispatched undead minions to stop
the wizard’s return — to no avail.

Late in the summer of 755, Azalin trium-
phantly returned to the world. He now claims that
his attempt to stop the Requiem — supposedly an
invasion of the dead into the world of the living —
physically trapped him in the Gray Realm, the land
of the dead, until he could find his way home.
Azalin hasreturned to find his kingdom in shambles
and has publicly sworn to restore Darkon to its
former glory.

In recent years, Azalin has employed a scholar
to visit other domains and send him reports con-
cerning them. Speculation suggests that there is
more behind this than simply a desire to know
more about his neighbors. Whatever his true in-
tentions, only the foolish would believe he does
not plan to gain some lore or benefit that allows
him greater power than ever before.

758: Che Present

These are uncertain times for the Realm of
Dread. A growing sentiment among its people
holds that the world is steadily creeping toward
some inexorable fate, but no one knows what that
fate will be. Doom prophets speak of the Time of
Unparalleled Darkness, predicted to arrive in a
scant twenty years, but clerics of the Morninglord
proclaim that the long night that fell on Barovia in
351 will finally reach a glorious dawn. Some few
scholars point to the occurrence of Masques as an
optimistic sort of dress rehearsal for the breaking up
of Ravenloft, while others fear the realm is expand-
ing to cover all lands ever known.

One thing is certain. Whether Ravenloft’s
fate lies in darkness or light, it will be mortals — be
they heroes or villains — who determine its des-
tiny.

. a
