 

     

Z fe

Che Geography of Mists
avenloft’s inhabitants often call their
world the “Land of Mists,” and for good
f ‘ reason: Ravenloft has an unknown size
and shape. Although Ravenloft’s
breadth cannot be measured, it forms a
relatively small world — what some might call
intimate, others claustrophobic. As new domains
appear or old ones fade into the Mists, the Realm
of Dread expands and contracts, like the chest of a
sleeping beast. The central continent, the Core, is
the largest congregation of known domains in the
realm. Noone knows how many domains lie within
the Mists; theoretically, the total is limitless. More
than one hundred domains have been recorded
since the creation of Barovia, but the number of
existing domains frequently fluctuates. Note thata
domain may beassmall asa single room ina forlorn
house. Some domains have vanished entirely —
often amid rumors of their destruction — only to

emerge from the Mists unscathed years later.

The Mists can also reshape the geography
within domains. This may occur slowly and subtly,
as with the Mist-led phenomenon or the gradual
revelation of the Nocturnal Sea, but unusual events
can also trigger sudden and startling changes, such
asthose that occurred in the Scourge of Arak or the
Grand Conjunction.

Scattered legends of the Realm of Dread have
filtered into other worlds. These tales often depict
Ravenloft as a living hell, a realm of unremitting
horror and misery, a place where heroes go to die.
These legends are woefully inaccurate. Ravenloft
is filled with natural beauty, both in its vistas and
its people. Although its inhabitants are often slow
to offer their trust, many folk are kind and gentle.
Ravenloft’s horrors lurk just out of sight, and with
simple caution, many folk live their entire lives
without ever encountering these supernatural men-
aces. Of course, heroes who look for trouble soon
find it.

MostofRavenloft’s common inhabitants know
nothing of other worlds; many even have trouble
comprehending outlanders’ tales of their distant
homelands. Lacking outside references, Ravenloft’s
folk see nothing unusual about the Misty Border or
other eerie features of their little world. In many
ways, the Land of Mists behaves just like the true
worlds of the Material Plane: the sun and moon
turnin regular cycles, justas the years cycle through
expected seasons. The domains of a given cluster

 

 

—e

all typically share the same night sky and general
climate.

This section provides a brief overview of the
best-known tegions of the Land of Mists; Chapter
Four offers greatly expanded detail.

The Core

The Core is the largestand oldest clusterin the
Land of Mists. It currently holds at least thirty
domains, though more may be hidden among the
scattered islands of the Core’s two seas. Just as
Barovia lies at the center of the Core, the Core is
traditionally held to lie at the heart of the Realm of
Dread, though the presence of the Mists makes this
impossible to verify. The Core is a vast, rolling
landscape divided by the Balinok mountain range
and book-ended by stormy seas.

The kingdom of Darkon, which fills nearly a
third of the Core’s total landmass, dominates the
northern Core. Darkon is unusual in that arcane
generally trusted, and nonhumans — such
and dwarves — are relatively common.
Nonhumans are extremely rare in most domains
and are seldom welcome. In fact, two of Darkon’s
neighbors, Falkovnia and Tepest, are both particu-
larly hostile toward nonhumans, though for vastly
different reasons. Falkoynian soldiers imprison
nonhumans, treating them as chattel, while the
clerics of Tepest are in their second decade of an
inquisition against the fey. The Core’s most infa-
mous landmark, the bottomless Shadow Rift,
separates these two domains.

 

    

Inthe northwestern Core, shipping on the Sea
of Sorrows and treaties forged to defend against
Falkovnian aggression have led to the free trade of
both goods and ideas. From stormy Lamordia and
cosmopolitan Dementlieu, down through sleepy
Mordent and decadent Borca and Richemulot,
these lands are heralded as having entered an age
of enlightenment. The new inventions being pro-
duced here, from moveable type to primitive steam
engines, may one day reshape life throughout the
Core.

To the south, the lands west of the Balinoks
remain thickly forested. Rustic folk here often face
quiet derision from their northern neighbors. These
are lands thick with superstition and mistrust.
Woodsmen in Verbrek warn of monstrous wolves,
while fearful villagers in Barovia shutter their win-
dowsand hide when the sun dips below the horizon.
Supported by Falkovnian coffers, the despot con-
trolling Invidia has initiated a pogrom against the
