 

 

Vistani, and his raids into reighboriaa doauing
have raised the specter of war. The southwestern
Core is also notable for Kartakass, home to a richly
musical culture, and Sithicus, a politically unstable
realm of reclusive elves.

 

On the far side of the Balinoks, the grasslands
of the southeastern Core are divided between Nova
Vaasa and Hazlan, both home to Byzantine gov-
ernments, rampant crime and the methodical
oppression of the poor. Nova Vaasa’s aristocrats vie
for control of the throne, while the wizard who
rules Hazlan has recently founded the Core’s larg-
est school of arcane magic.

The Sea of Sorrows stretches out to the west of
the Core, mirrored by the Nocturnal Sea to the
east. These seas seem to defy navigation, and
sudden storms have bested many good ships, but
captains who brave these waters can make a tidy
fortune supplying the small, rugged settlements on
the islands that dot both seas.

 

Clusters

More than a dozen domains have coalesced to
form new clusters in the years since the Grand
Conjunction. Only time will tell whether any of
these clusters reach the size and power of the Core.
Five clusters are currently known to exist.

The Amber Wastes are a harsh desert realm
where ancient deities and divine curses still protect
sandworm temples and the elaborate tombs of the
ancient dead.

 

The Frozen Reaches suffer from a winter that
has not lifted ina generation. Although this cluster
may nearly equal the Core in size, its population is
just a tiny fraction of that of the Core. The rugged
folk in these lands must contend with both the
merciless elements and unnatural things that do
not feel the arctic cold.

In the Shadowlands, the holy protector of the
domain of Nidala ruthlessly prunes evil thoughts
from her populace, hoping to stop the slow en-
croachmentof the Phantasmal Forest, anightmarish
morass that hides monstrous foes.

 

Nature holds the Verdurous Lands ina jealous
grip. The Rajian people must continually fend off
disease and hostile wildlife while trying to appease
the cult of Kali. Elsewhere, sailors endlessly struggle
to free their ships from the clinging seaweed of the
Saragoss Sea. In these sweltering tropics, the jungle
itself is often mankind’s worst enemy.

Zherisia is the smallest of the known clusters
Atfirst glance, it appears to be nothing more than

 

 

 

a ore aaa city in the Mists where folk live in
mounting fear of faceless killers. Beneath the city,
strange tunnels lead down into a realm of alien
horrors.

Islands of Cerror

Five Islands of Terror are known to some of
Ravenloft’s folk; others are almost sure to exist,
hidden by the Mists

Bluetspur is a scorched and lightless realm
where nothing human can survive. Monstrous,
slithering creatures possessed of an alien intelli-
gence are said to lurk beneath its blasted surface,
where they conduct eldritch experiments and con-
spire against the stars.

G’Hennaisanarid land consumed by religious
zealotry. Torn from the Core during the Grand
Conjunction, its starving populace spirals into
despair as it slowly succumbs to a creeping fear that
its bestial deity will never appear to relieve its
suffering.

 

Like Zherisia, Odiare is nothing more than a
small city surrounded by the Mists. Here, growing
children struggle to support themselves and offer
prayers against the day when the creature that
massacred their parents returns to claim them.

Rokushima Taiyoo, a beautiful archipelago
surrounded by a placid sea, is a land of ancient
codes of honor, delicate philosophies and exotic
art — which are all being crushed by the conflict
between the four ruthless and conniving shigin
lords who seek to rule it.

Lastly, the folk of Souragne offer praise to the
spirits of the swampland and pray that when they
die, the Lord of the Dead will not force their bodies
to toil in the fields until the flesh drops from their
bones.

Cultural Levels

The Land of Mists is home to dozens of distinct
cultures, forming a patchwork of widely varying
levels of technological advancement. Just as
Jonathan Harker in Bram Stoker's Dracula jour-
neys from a modern Victorian London to a
Transylvania still chained by medieval fears, those
who travel through the Realm of Dread can wander
between lands of enlightenment and domains that
progress does not touch.

As reflections of their darklord, the cultures
found in each domain often resemble those of the
darklord’s homeland. Domains created for native
evildoers expand the range of Ravenloft’s native
