   

cultures and languages. Domains created for out-
landers are often grim reflections of cultures found
in distant worlds and may thus be unusually primi-
tive or may draw new forms of knowledge into the
Land of Mists.

In Ravenloft, these disparate degrees of tech-
nological and cultural progress are expressed as
Cultural Levels (CuL). Cultural Levels determine
the availability of given types of equipment or
learning (see Equipment in Chapter Two), and the
DM can use themas a guideline when adding detail
to Ravenloft’s societies.

   

Cultural Levels are intended to be a starting
point for creating atmosphere, not a rigorously
accurate depiction of Earth’s past. The Dark Pow.
ers sculpt their domains from the romantic dreams
and chilling nightmares of countless worlds and
often warp the cultures they draw from to suit their
tastes.

 

Note: The abbreviation B.C. in the following
section indicates real world, Before Christ dates,
not the Barovian Calendar, and is included for
reference.

CuL o: Savage

Savage domains remain untamed wilderness
completely untouched by civilization. No technol-
ogy can be found in these lands, and the only law
in effect is survival of the fittest. Savage domains
implya lack of sentient creatures and are extremely
rare in Ravenloft.

CuL 1: Stone Hge
(10,000 B.C.-5000 B.C.)

Stone Age domains represent the most primi-
tive lands that canstill claim to possess true societies.
Stone Age peoples have not yet learned to work
metal; weapons and tools are crafted from wood,
bone or stone, such as flint and obsidian. Daggers,
clubs, slings and spears are the most common
weapons, with the shortbow representing the most
advanced weaponry tobe found. Stone Age peoples
tan hides to create clothing and can create leather
armor.

Life in such a primitive society is dictated by
the daily demands of survival. Societies usually
exist as small, seminomadic tribes, usually able to
support no more than a score of people. These
tribes hunt game or gather edible plants for food,
though some may possess domesticated animals or
limited agricultural skills. The ability to make fire
is considered invaluable.

 

 

 

*\ Stone Weapons

 

S

Settlements usually take the form of natural
caves or collections of hide tents. Lush lands may
boast small villages built from adobe bricks. Stone
Age communities trade exclusively through barter;
an adventurer’s coins or gems would be valued only
for their decorative worth.

The Stone Age mind is ruled by superstition;
every natural event is given a mystical explana-
tion. These primitive peoples have not yet
developed any concept of science or written lan-
guage, nor have they mastered the arts of magic.
Divine spellcasters are typically adepts or druids,
while arcane magic is found only in the natural
talents of sorcerers.

The goblins that roam the wilds of Ravenloft
can be considered a Stone Age society. Although
these creatures often wield metal weapons, very
few understand metallurgy. Goblins typically steal
their metal weapons and tools from the isolated
farmsteads they prey on.

¥ >

Stone weapons have hardness 8 and
only half as many hit points as their metal
counterparts. Piercing and slashing stone
weapons suffer a —1 penalty on attack and
damage rolls. 7

CuL 2: Bronze Age
(5000 B.C.-2500 B.C.)

With advances in agriculture, the land can
now support large, permanent communities, in
turn allowing true civilization to take root. Bronze
Age societies are defined by the discovery of met-
alworking. Bronze weapons and tools begin to
replace their crude stone or wood equivalents.
Studded leather becomes the most advanced armor
available. As people learn to weave cloth, includ-
ing cotton and silk, padded armor also appears.

Bronze Age societies possess pictographic writ-
ten languages and often keep important records on.
clay tablets or scrolls made of crude forms of paper
or they inscribe them in stone. Growing seasons are
recorded each year, leading to the creation of early
calendars. Other new discoveries include fixed
measurements and an often-sophisticated knowl-
edge of mathematics, architecture, astronomy and
herbal medicine. New inventions include the
potter’s wheel, pulleys, levers, the plow and may
include the wheel. Gems and works of art crafted

 

 
