 

   

from precious metals become prized symbols of
wealth and power, but most trade still relies on
barter.

Organized religion appears and quickly domi-
nates society. Bronze Age rulers are often clerics,
viewed as the direct emissaries of the deities. Sages
unlock sorcerers’ arcane powers to become the first
wizards, and spellcasters learn to enchant magic
items.

Bronze Age peoples can build stone structures
for their cities and temples. The size of these
structures often seems to be limited only by the
available workforce, and large communities may
construct massive monuments capable of outlasting
their builders by millennia. These architects may
also protect their glorious temples and tombs with
secret doors and cunning traps, including hidden
pits, swinging blades and deadfalls. Ironically,
Bronze Age societies have yet to invent the lock
and key.

 

> Bronze Meapons

Bronze isa soft metal. Bronze weapons
have hardness 9, and piercing and slashing
weapons suffer a —1 penalty on damage
rolls.

eer

 

 

 

q

 

= a ah

CuL 3: Iron Hge (G500 B.C.-1B.C.)

As society continues to advance, metalwork-
ers eventually learn to forge iron, a metal more
durable than bronze and capable of holding a finer
edge. Armed with more reliable materials, Iron
Age domains create new armaments, including the
breastplate, the tower shield and siege engines such
as the catapult. Their armies now employ ad-
vanced military tactics.

With the Iron Age, early civilization comes
into full bloom. Government has started to distin-
guish itself from the mandates of the deities. Laws
are codified, and societies may even experiment
with new forms of rule. Ships can now weather
limited oceanic travel, and trade becomes more
common. Metal coins make their first appearance,
as do simple locks.

Written language has been refined from com-
plex hieroglyphics to a simple alphabet, spreading
literacy and prompting revolutionary advances in
the realms of knowledge. Libraries are built, and
writers spread epic tales of adventure or debate
philosophical truths. Artisansdevelop glassmaking.

 

Medicine becomes standardized, often based on
the theory of four “humours” regulating health.
The sundial and the hourglass allow for more
accurate measurement of time.

Iron Age communities are noteworthy for
their ability to reshape the surrounding terrain to
meet their needs. Iron Age science can create
water screws, canals, sewers and aqueducts to irri-
gate fields or supply running water to the palaces of
the elite, and windmills are built to draw power
from the sky itself.

Cul 4: Classical (1A.D.-500 A.D.)

Classical societies represent the apex of early
civilization; some have even begun to slide into
decadence. Classical domains continue advances
in scientific knowledge, philosophy and theology.
Mathematicians refine algebra and geometry, and
spellcasters lay the foundations of alchemy. With
the invention of paper, durable, bound books start
to replace scrolls, though these books must still be
scribed by hand. High-quality roads promote in-
creased travel, and the invention of the stirrup and
trousers aids horsemen, creating the first true cav-
ley,

Cul 5: Dark Hge (500 H.D.-800 A.D.)

Dark Age societies often form in the wake of
the slow collapse of aclassical culture. The eraeven
takes its name from the widespread belief that the
light of civilization has been extinguished. Despite
their backward reputation, Dark Age domains still
produce many scientific advances. Monastic orders
form, dedicated to the preservation of knowledge
or contemplation of the soul. The invention of the
astrolabe and advances in shipbuilding produce
the first reliable ocean travel.

Large farms, kept fertile through crop rotation,
can now supply grain to mechanical mills, sustain-
ing large populations. In these communities, artisans
jealously guard the secret of creating porcelain, and
tea is often drunk for its medicinal qualities.

Warfare also advances, most notably with the
invention of the crossbow and sturdy new forms of
armor, including banded mail, scale mail and splint
mail. Magic also advances as arcane spell
refine their theories of the elemental planes.

Cul 6: Garly Medieval
(800 H.D.-1200 A.D.)

Early medieval architecture heralds the ap-
pearance of the pointed Gothic arch, an

 

 

 

gS
