   
 

  

 

improvement over the curved arches in use since
the late Iron Age. Early medieval domains are
marked by the construction of motte-and-bailey
castles, fortified towers and large cathedrals deco-
rated with masterful stained glass windows.

The first merchant guilds, appear in larger
Commun ities a few may even'go so fares coloffer
insurance plaris against losses caused by, fire’ or
plague. Healers begin to explore surgical tech-
niques of treatment, and bards form colleges to
organize their traditions. Travelers discover the
magnetic compass, and ships gain the stern rudder.
Water clocks keep accurate track of time, and
warriors use chain mail and the lance.

Cul 7: Medieval (1200 H.D.-1400 A.D.)

The medieval era can be considered the de-
fault Cultural Level presented in the D&D Player's
Handbook. The era is also notable for the appear-
ance of ornate Gothic cathedrals and castles, the
structures that would one day lend the Gothic
genre its name. The longbow now dominates war-
fare, matched by mounted knights protected by
half-plate armor and heavy barding.

Doctors establish the first medical schools,
and surgeons dissect bodies to further their know!-

 

pp ee REA td heer Soke

 

   
 

    

edge. Block printingcan free scribes from the chore
of copying every book by hand, but engraving the
wooden blocks for printing remains a laborious
process. Advances in glassblowing and the study of
optics create eyeglasses and mirrors and put glass
panes in the windows of every manor. The first
huge mechanical clocks appear in cities, and the
invention of the spinning wheel sparks new textile
industries.

CuL 8: Chivalric
(1400 A.D.-1550 A.D.)

Chivalric domains host the first appearance of
gunpowder, though weapons using powder are usu-
ally restricted to large, crude bombards. Warriors
can now wield bastard swords and fit themselves
out in full-plate armor, but the tradition of the
armored knight is coming to an end, overshadowed
by the spreading use of muskets and lighter weap-
ons such as the sabre.

Engineers refine mechanical clocks, making
them small enough to appear in the homes of the
wealthy. Doctors now understand medicine well
enough to order quarantines to control plagues,
while governments start to keep careful records of
births, marriages and deaths within their domain.

 
