 

   

Some wealthy, populous lands even experiment
with limited postal services.

CuL 9: Renaissance
(1550 H.D.-1700 A.D.)

Renaissance domains represent the most ad-
vanced cultures to be found within the Land of
Mists, though it seems likely that future centuries
will bring further eras of discovery. Firearms and
fencing now dominate warfare, and heavy weapons
and armorare considered antiquated. The inhabit-
ants of these domains typically view anyone seen
wearing heavy armorasa backward brute obviously
looking for a fight. Castles have also fallen out of
favor, and those built in earlier eras are often
renovated into more comfortable palaces.

The invention of the moveable type printing
press createsan immediate revolution in the realms
of art and knowledge. Jaded intellectuals meet in
salons, and theater witnesses the first ballets and
operas. Early newspapers may even appear in a few
wealthy communities — typically in the form of
double-sided handbills. Caravels now ply the seas,
spreading trade and hunting whales for their oil
and blubber. Travelers now ride on coach lines that
make regular trips between large towns.

Renaissance domains often feature such di
ingscientific advances that their inhabitants believe
that science is slowly and inexorably replacing
magic in the world. Clockworks are sophisticated
enough to fit ina noble’s pocket, and metal ore can
be purified in blast furnaces. Cumbersome ma-
chines can knit wool or add figures, while further
discoveries in optics produce the microscope and
the principles of the camera obscura. The current
century has also seen the appearance of the first
crude steam engines. Even the most jaded denizens
of Renaissance domains marvel at the handful of
paddleboats that now chug along Ravenloft’s riv-
ers.

  

 

 

Note: A character who wears
heavy armor in CuL 9 communities
3 adds a +1 circumstance modifier to

her Outcast Rating (see Chapter
Two).

A

 

 

Magic Ratings

 

Magic is not as common in Ravenloft as in
many other settings. This is reflected in the relative
rarity of arcane spellcasters and the scarcity of
magic items. While Ravenloft is steeped in the
supernatural, it faces a paucity of magic. Some may
believe that the two are the same, but this isnot the
case.

The supernatural exists in the darklords, the
undead that infest realm after realm, the stalking
werewolves, the keening ghosts and the eerie build-
ings whose very stones cry out the horrors taking
place within. While some of these may employ
magic, they are different and separate from the
arcane knowledge that embodies magic. The su-
pernatural beings that exist in Ravenloft are a
natural part of the Dread Realms’ ecology. Indeed,
they could hardly be separated from it, for each
realm isan outward extension of the darklord it was
cated to imprison. As a natural part of the land-
scape, the supernatural flourishes in the Land of
the Mists, finding expression in its denizens, lo-
cales, beliefs and superstitions.

 

 

a

 

 

Magic, conversely, is not so natural to the
Realms of Dread. In fact, the supernatural, which
finds such welcome in the heart of the land, tends
to suppress magic to some degree. This is expressed
as a land’s magic rating. Just as each realm in
Ravenloft exists at a cultural level, each also gains
a magic rating based on the nature of the domain,
the influence of the Mists, the prevalence of magic
within the area and the beliefs of the beings who
reside there.

Expressed as RMR, for realm magic rating, the
magic rating of a land holds meaning for all
spellcasters and all magic used within the realm. It
acts as a bonus or penalty to everything from spell
memorization to the effectiveness of spells and
magic items. A realm’s magic rating has no effect
on the changes wrought to spells in Ravenloft.
These remain the same no matter what the magic
rating. While the realm magic rating holds some
relationship to a land’s Cultural Level, it is not
entirely dependent on such. Because of the nature
of each domain, the darklord is immune to the
effects engendered by magic ratings.

  

4 fluctuations in Magic Ratings

Even withina land that hasa particularly high
or low magic rating, there may exist areas where
magic fluctuates wildly from the norm. These areas
should always have some reason for existing that

ae
