 

explain their presence, such as a magical accident
in the past, a scientific experiment that drains
magic to power itself, the touch of the fey or some
other explanation. Locating such areas and either
closing them or utilizing them for particular pur-
poses (to destroy an otherwise indestructible item,
to empower a difficult healing and so on) might
form part of a story or quest. DMs may utilize these
areas in the same fashion as Sinkholes of Evil,
placing a few here and there to spice up her cam-
paign or explain a puzzling phenomenon.

In high-magic realms, spots can be found that
act almost as anti-magic or null-magic zones, sap-
ping spellcasters’ abilities to utilize magic effectively.
Most such places cause spellcasters to feel uneasy,
tired or unusually distracted. Some may actually
create a drained feeling as though the magic is
running out of their systems. Some few null-magic
zones cause no obvious side effects,
ply suppressing magic used within them with no
prior warning.

Such areas may harbor hostile folk, intent on
capturing and killing “demon magic users” or pow-
erful creatures that soak up the magic and utilize it
to make themselves stronger. Although it is pos-
sible to create a zone in even the highest magic
realm that completely nullifies magic, most such
aberrations should be within one or two ratings of
one another. For example, in a land where the
magic rating is usually 4, most low-magic areas
should correspond to ratings 3 or 2. A very few
should be rating 1 and the rarest of the rare would
be a rating 0 zone.

In low-magic areas, a few places exist that are
more magically active, granting spellcasters greater
use of their magic, These are less common than
their opposite, lower magic rating zones. Each such
cocurrence should have a specific story behind irs
existence. When entering such areas, spellcasters
may feel energized, awake and more mentally ac-
tive. They may even feel some sort of energy flow
entering their bodies. Some areas may grant such
magical power that there are physical manifesta-
tions such as making the spellcaster glow slightly,
raising their hair into a crackling, electrified halo
or changing their eye color to a vibrant gold.
Spellcasters may even feel manic, as if given too
much energy to hold and in need of some way to
express it before it burns them out physically or
emotionally, Some areas, however, betray no such
outward manifestations, imbuing spellcasters with
greater power with no obvious outward signs.

  

 

 

  

however, sim-

 

Areas such as these may be home to dangerous
spellcasters hoarding the benefits for themselves.
Such powerful beings are usually mad, made drunk
with the ecstasy of overpowering magic so readily
available. Other dangerous opponents may also be
encountered here, spawned by the site or changed
by it into greater threats. Such things as dire wolves
with the ability to use elemental effects similar to
adragon’s breath ot otherwise normal deer thatcan
control humans might be found in such a zone. In
most cases, such zones differ from the surrounding
area by a rating or only 1 or 2. Only the strongest,
most rare ones should differ by 3 or more. For
example, in a rating 1 land, zones of greater magic
might correspond to ratings 2 or 3. A rating 4 or 5
zone would be extremely rare and highly feared. A
rating 6 zone should be the rarest, most closely
guarded, most dangerous, most feared and best
hidden secret of any such places.

© Magic Rating 0: This rating often corre-
sponds with a savage cultural level due to its lack of
civilized societies of any sort. Strangely, societies
that have very high cultural levels, such as those
beyond (and occasionally those incorporating) the
Renaissance may also have a 0 magic rating due to
the lack of belief in magic espoused by the land’s
inhabitants. Such societies usually reserve their
admiration for science. Naturally, in Ravenloft,
what passes for science may, in fact, be the studied
application of magic. Finally, in any land that has
undergone a great upheaval where a great deal that
was known before has been lost, the inhabitants
cannot begin play with any magic beyond 3rd level.
Characters may not utilize any Use Magic Device
skill they may have and if these are from the area,
they cannot take any ranks in that skill. As a rule,
when adventuring in lands with a0 magic rating, it
is quite difficult to utilize magic at all.

In savage lands, all spells take three times as
long to learn, study (or pray for) and cast, whether
arcane or divine. Sorcerers and bards must also
spend a like amount of time in meditation to clear
their minds for casting any spells. The increased
casting time may mean that spellcasters take more
than | round to bring their magical effects into
being. No spellcaster may utilize spells above 3rd
level — even those entering the area from outside.
Note that the lack of organized societies and writ-
ten materials means that the only spellcasters in
these realms are those who have traveled there
from elsewhere. While there might be a primitive
sorcerer native to the area somewhere, the chances

 

   

 
