a

   

 

destroying herself in the process are quite sli

Any magic items with powers that mimic
spells beyond 3rd level have a base 50% chance of
failure when used. This chance rises by 10% for
each level beyond 6th. Weapons of +2 or less power
are unaffected by this, though if they incorporate
other magical powers, those may be affected as any
other spell or item above 3rd level.

Those who must make saving throws against
magic do so at a +2 due to the unstable nature of
magic in this realm, and spell DCs are lowered by
1 point. Thus if a wizard with an 18 Intelligence
cast a Ist-level spell on an opponent, the victim
would not only save at a +2 bonus, but would save
against a DC of 14 rather than the usual 15 (10 +
spell level + wizard’s Intelligence bonus of +4),

Supernatural creatures in such lands are gen-
erally rare. Those encountered are generally tough
enough to survive in magic-starved lands, but are
not the higher level or more intelligent monsters.

In those lands where science holds such sway
that the magic rating is 0, similar penalties apply.
The single exception to this is if such magic can be
disguised as science. Weird experiments may ac-
count for almost any effect that could be created
with magic, but the penalties for learning, casting
and chance of failure remain the same if the back-
ground level of the land is a 0 magic rating.

© Magic Rating 1: These domains have very
little magic and what does exist is generally divine
rather than arcane. A few sorcerers may exist but
must keep a very low profile as the bulk of the
population would kill them if their powers were
known. Domains with a magic rating of 1 may be
Cultural Level 1 Stone Age societies or may en-
compass any cultural level in which the main
population’s ideas are informed by superstition and
a belief that magic is abnormal or evil.

Stone Age societies are tribal gatherings. While
they may acknowledge medicine men or shamans,
few tolerate any sort of magic that is not used for the
good of the tribe as a whole. Most Stone Age
peoples are highly superstitious, assigning super-
natural or divine causes to things they don’t
understand. The shamans, who wish to be seen as
the conduit between the deities and the people,
foster this perception. Those who evince powers
other than divine may be stoned or burned as evil
and their powers usually attributed to demons or
evil spiritsofsomesort. Thus, itisrareforspellcasters
other than the divine type to survive long enough

 

ee encemmemeetl

to learn much magic. Further, the very land itself
seems against them, spawning supernatural crea-
tures that conform to the peoples’ fears while
suppressing higher level magic.

In a few more advanced societies, magic use
may also be restricted by the peoples’ attitudes,
even if they don’t subscribe to notions of supersti-
tion. These may be formed of those people who
consider themselves particularly rational, eschew-
ing notions that such a ridiculous thing as magic
exists. Other, seemingly more advanced communi-
ties, such as those found in Cultural Level 5 Dark
Ages societies, may condemn magic asa tool of evil
(prompted by an overbearing church to do so).

In societies with a magic rating of 1, only
divine spellcasters may access up to 5th-level spells.
Nondivine spellcasters are limited to 3rd-level
spells. This affects both those native to the areaand
those who enter it. Learning, praying for and cast-
ing spells takes twice as long as usual. Sorcerers and
bards must spend a like amount of time in medita-
tion when gaining and utilizing their spells. The
increased casting time may mean that spellcasters
take more than 1 round to bring their magical
effects into being.

 

 

Any magic items with powers that mimic
spells beyond 3rd level have a base 30% chance of
failure when used. This chance rises by 10% for
each level beyond 6th. Weapons of +2 or less power
are unaffected by this, though if they incorporate
other magical powers, those may be affected as any
other spell or item above 3rd level. The exceptions
are clerical and druidic items, which function as
normal up to the 5th level. Characters may not
utilize their Use Magic Device skill in these lands,
though bards may do so with a successful check at
twice the normal difficulty level.

 

Those who must make saving throws against
magic do so ata +1 and spell DCs are lowered by 1
point. Thus if a wizard with an 18 Intelligence cast
a Ist level spell on an opponent, the victim would
save at a +1 bonus and the spell DC would be 14
rather than the usual 15 (10 + spell level + wizard’s
Intelligence bonus of +4).

Supernatural creatures in lands with a magic
rating of | may be encountered occasionally, though
less frequently than in lands with higher magic
ratiny

© Magic Rating 2: Lands with this magic
rating usually feature large, organized communi-
ties. Often these coincide with Cultural Level 2
domains. The leaders of such towns and cities are

 

 

Ss
