usually clerics who promote their deities through
building large temples. Rulers may be priests or
sorcerer-priests, some of whom are viewed as dei-
ties themselves by those they rule. Magic rating 2
realms may also encompass Cultural Levels of 3
and 4. Societies with magic rating 2 provide the
background needed for those who practice magic
to blossom. Writing has become more common
and wizards are able to pen spellbooks to record
their knowledge. Further, in magic rating 2 atmo-
spheres, theambient magic issuch that spellcasters
can create magic items.

 

Spellcasting in such domains is almost to the
level considered normal in fantasy campaigns. Di-
vine spellcasters can access up to 7th-level spells,
while arcane casters may learn and use up to 5th-
level dweomers. There is only a 15% chance that
magic items that incorporate spells above 7th-level
clerical or druidic magic or 5th-level arcane magic
may malfunction. This chance rises by 10% for
each level beyond. Weapons of up to +3 power are
unaffected by this. Learning or praying for spells
takes a normal amount of time as does casting
them. Saving throws and DCs are normal as well,
and supernatural encounters happen as often as
they occur in normal settings.

 

 

  

© Magic Rating 3: Those societies that have
a magic rating of 3 are what is considered the norm
in most fantasy settings. Roughly corresponding to
Cultural Levels 6, 7 and 8, these lands have few
differences from any basic Prime Material world in
as far as magic is concerned. There are no plusses or
minuses to learning, praying for or casting spells,
saving throws or spell DCs. Clerics, druids, sorcer-
ers and wizards may all access their highest level
spells. Bards may learn up to 6th-level spells as
normal and paladins and rangers may learn up to
4th-level spells. Magic items, while less frequently
found than outside of Ravenloft, function at the
levels intended. This is the default magic rating
unless some other indication would suggest that it
be lowered or raised.

© Magic Rating 4: At this rating, realms
typically correspond to Cultural Levels 7 or 8. This
is roughly equivalent to the setting presented in
the D&D Player’s Handbook. Naturally, nothing is
ever the same in Ravenloft. Because there are fewer
spellcasters and less magic in Ravenloft than else-
where, the prevalence of magic in these realms
grants spellcasters a small bonus. All levels of spells
are accessible to those who may learn the highest
levels. Learning spells for the day takes 1/4 less time

  

 
   

 
