than usual. Clerics and druids must spend the
normal amount of time in prayer to receive their
spells. All spellcasters receive a +1 bonus to their
spell’s DCs at each level (i-e., if someone usually
has a DC 15, it is now a 16), and targets of their
spells save against them at a —I penalty. Magic
items receive a +1 bonus to avoid damage, destruc-
tion or dispelling. Finally, supernatural creatures
and monsters areas likely to be encountered as they
are in any other world.

© Magic Rating 5: This is a highly charged
magical realm. Magic is more common here and
spellcasters find that magic comes more easily to
them. This may correspond to any domain above
Cultural Level 0, though it is more commonly
encountered in higher level ones (Cultural Levels
6-9). Nonetheless, even those lands with a lower
Cultural Level may have something about them
that lends itself to greater magic. In rating 5 areas,
arcane spellcasters may learn spells in 1/3 less time
than it normally takes and may cast spells up to the
levels they may learn. Clerics and druids pray for 1/
4 less time. All spellcasters receive a +2 bonus to

  

 

Cable 1-2: Realm Magic Rating Cable

ae

   

POs

their spells’ DC (i.e., if the DC is normally 15, itis
now 17) and targets of their spells save against their
spells at a —2 penalty. Magic items receive a +2 to
save against damage, destruction or dispelling, as
do magical effects. Supernatural creatures are far
more likely to be encountered in such realms.

© Magic Rating 6: So potent is the magic in a
rating 6 domain that there is almost too much of it.
Those who have no magic feel as if on the verge of
gaining some strange, inexplicable powers and
those who routinely cast spells feel charged up,
nervous and as if they simply cannot wait to utilize
all this power. Arcane spellcasters may learn spells
inhalfthe time it usually takes and may access epic-
level spells if they are able to do so by virtue of their
level. Clerics and druids may pray for spells in 1/3
less time. Even those unable to normally use epic-
level spells may be able to use one in a specific
circumstance with DM approval. After using such
a spell, however, the caster loses the ability to cast
all spells for one week. Such a sacrifice might be
worth it in the right circumstances. Spellcasters
receive a +4 bonus on their DCs (i.e., a DC that is

  

In this table, each magic rating has the following information:

 

Spell cap is the highest-level spell that can be cast in this realm. Ratings in brackets indicate the level
spell non-divine spellcasters can cast in this realm.

Learn/Cast is the measure of how long any spell takes to learn, study, pray for and cast. When noted
as 2x (for example), this indicates that it takes twice as long to learn and cast a spell. When noted’ as —1/
4 (for instance), this indicates that the spell may be learned in the normal time less one quarter (i., if it
would take an hour, it takes only 45 minutes). If it states full or a fraction such as 1/3 in parentheses after
this, it means clerical and druidic magic takes the full amount of time or less a certain fraction of it in prayer
to receive spells in these realms.

Item is the base chance any magic item except a weapon has of failure when used. Note that this chance
may rise as more powerful magic items are utilized. The second half determines the plusses a weapon may
have before it may fail to function as well. When shown as a +, this indicates that the item saves against
damage, destruction or dispelling at a bonus.

 

Saves indicate any bonus or penalty the target of a spell cast in the realm may receive.
DC is expressed as a minus or plus to the usual DC of the spell cast.
Monster shows the rarity (or lack thereof) of higher-level supernatural creatures in the realm.

Magic Rating Spell Cap Learn/Cast Item Saves DC Monster

0 3 3x 50% (+2) a2 Rare

1 52] 2 30% (+2) + 4 Occasional
2 7[5] = 15% (+3) mel anita

3 q = = sates rennet

4 q —1/4 (full) +1 sl + Normal

5 q 113 (V4) +2 <2 +2 Frequent
6 Epic — 2 (V3) +4 2 +4 Rife

Se ipernity

te

?

 

 
