 

normally 14 becomes 18) and targets of their spells
must save at a—2 penalty. Magic items and effects
save against damage, destruction and dispelling at
a +4 bonus. Supernatural creatures are rife in such
realms, seemingly crawling out of the woodwork or
around every corner.

It is quite easy for spellcasters to lose touch
with reality in such realms, giving themselves over
to complete hedonism in their enjoyment of the
rush of energy available or to megalomania as they
become convinced of their ultimate cosmic power
and lose sight of using their magic responsibly.
Such reactions could be cause for powers checks or
the assignment of a madness to the character.
Certainly, those they meet in such lands are likely
to be crazed in some regard. Characters who here-
tofore have not had a magic-using class but who are
hoping to start one would find the perfect excuse to
do so while in such territories.

Some DMs may not wish to incorporate a
realm magic rating into the Ravenloft setting,
seeing the altered magic as enough complexity for
their games. It is optional and should be discussed
between DMs and their players. The best reason to
use the rating is to give the game more flavor and
a touch of the unexpected. Coincidentally, it can
also provide more challenges —and often, aneeded
boost to power — to player characters just when
such is needed. Of course, the opposite also applies
as the villains may be tougher than expected or
seemingly immune to magic that would normally
defeat them.

Lexicon

ancient dead: Also simply called ancients;
broader term for the undead creatures often called
mummies.

bloodline: A chain of lycanthropic infections
stemming from a single natural lycanthrope.

caliban: A human warped in the womb by
unnatural magic.

cleric domain: A clarification to the term
“domain” from the Player's Handbook to avoid
confusion with Ravenloft’s domains.

cluster: A patchwork collection of two or
more domains in a single Mist-bound region.

Core, the: The largest and oldest cluster in
Ravenloft, loosely resembling a microcosmic,
Gothic Europe.

 

 

Cultural Level (CuL): A rough measurement
ofacommunity’s technological level. Affects equip-
ment and skill availability.

 

darklord: The evil master — and ultimate
prisoner — of a domain. A descriptive term, it is
not used by characters in the setting.

Dark Powers: The faceless, godlike forces
that shape the Realm of Dread. A descriptive term;
their true nature and intentions remain a mystery.

domain: A pocket dimension created to im-
prison and torment a singular evil creature, its
darklord. Domains often resemble Material Plane
locations and may contain sizeable populations.

domain border: Darklords can close the bor-
ders of their domain, preventing escape. No mortal
magic can overcome a closed domain border.

Dukkar: A legendary foe of the Vistani, said
to bea male Vistana gifted with the Sight and fated
to bring destruction to his people.

ethereal resonance: The landscape of the
Near Ethereal, shaped by the echoes of emotion-
ally charged events.

Fear save: A Will save against fear effects.

fiend: Any powerful, evil outsider.

giomorgo: The Vistani term for half-Vistani.
Both singular and plural.

giorgio: The Vistani term for non-Vistani.
Both singular and plural.

Grand Conjunction, the: An arcane term for
a cataclysmic event in 740 that nearly destroyed
and permanently reshaped the Land of Mists. The
Vistani seer Hyskosa foresaw the Grand Conjune-
tion. Within the setting, this event is more
commonly known as the Great Upheaval.

Grim Harvest, the: A murderous conspiracy
forged to collect souls to power a grand and terrible
magical experiment. Lasting from 748-750, it cul-
minated in the Requiem.

Horror save: A Will save against horror ef-
fects.

 

Hour of Screaming Shadows, the: A terrify-
ing night in the autumn of 752 when a mass of
living shadows smashed into Nedragaard Keep in
Sithicus, apparently killing the black knight who
tuled it.

Innocence: The total absence of evil in a
mortal spirit. Evil creatures are both drawn to and
threatened by Innocence, like moths to a flame.

insane: Any creature suffering from a madness
effect.

eis
