  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

Island of Terror: A single domain, surrounded
on all sides by the Mists.

Madness save: A Willsaveagainstmadnesseffects.
Magic Rating: The innate background rating
against which magic functions in Ravenloft. In
some cases, this may limit the amount or types of
magic that may be performed in a given realm.
Expressed as RMR for Realm Magic Rating.
Masque: The reaching out of the Mists to
influence lands outside Ravenloft, either spiritu-
ally or physically.

Mists, the: As the Misty Border, these banks of
unnatural fog separate clusters and Islands of Terror.
The Mists can also appear at any place or time within
Ravenloft. They are presumed to be the agents of the
Dark Powers and can twist time and space.
Mistway: A relatively reliable travel route
through the Mists.

Outcast Rating (OR): A modifier to social
skills, reflecting the xenophobia of Ravenloft’s
denizens.

outlander: Anyone who comes from “beyond
the Mists,” perhaps even from another world.
Near Ethereal, the: The borderland between
Ravenloft and the Ethereal Plane.

powers check: A percentile roll to determine
whether the Dark Powers respond to evil acts.
rank: A measure of the power of ghosts, ethe-
real resonance and the ancient dead. Not to be
confused with skill ranks.

Ravenloft: A descriptive term for the setting.
To characters within the Land of Mists, Ravenloft
is just a castle in Barovia.

recovery check: A Will save made to recover
from horror or madness effects. Failing the check
incurs no further penalties.

Requiem, the: A catastrophic event in 750 in
which an expanding wave of negative energy slew
Il Aluk. Darkon’s king was thought killed in the
blast but has recently reemerged.

Scourge of Arak: A massive sandstorm in 588
that wiped out all surface life in the region now
known as the Mountains of Misery in Darkon.
sinkhole of evil: A spiritually unclean area
that applies penalties to Will saves and turning
attempts. The effect of powerful ethereal reso-
nance spawned by acts of evil.

Vistani: A mysterious, gypsylike people who
roam the Land of Mists. They are feared and
respected for their evil eye and power over the
Mists. Vistani is plural; the singular form is Vistana.
