Dearest Ancle Geer e,

D pray thés letter finds you well. Cuen tf you again send ne reply,
know that you are alisays in cqr hearts. Y regret to report that
Grandfather's health is fading. Fbe asks for you'eften; semvetiores he
even Asks fer curt mother, may she rest in peace.

Laurie and Yvistted CAncle udebph's grave todag. Che head-
stone as convpleted while we sere abroad, cnvestigating reports of a
strange creature seen outside retwald. Father chided us for cemris-
siening sucha “lavish” memerial fer an empty grave, but then, mest of
eur actiuvcties these recent years seem te meet with Father's displeasure.
D uncerstand that Father cs merely concetned for cur Psiiare an
perhays for cur reputation, but lee tiidnt Ve outel omilerstndl ele
importance ef cur chosen calling.

Wut U am being selfish. Standing at van PRichten's grave, Visas
reminded of the events that set him on his path te battle afore of
darkness. J cannet imagine the suffering he must have encured: te
have his only sen stelen and sold te a vainpire, and then te be forced
te drive a stake thicugh that son's heart? Co have that selprame
vampire brutally ie wife as repayment? Co spend the mext
three decades living under a Uistani curse that tried te destrey every
person eho he loved?

Bet, despite this, Ancle Rudolph did net succumb te despacr. Ae
had the strength of character te dedicate his life te justice, net
vengeance. (Dy revealing the true nature of the children of the night
DeLay Cee Meee Dag Casgt came Ale Ned ental /ipistee
shared hés guest.

what in nvy con life can Y compare such tragedy? Hes can

mvensure mrgself agacast guch virtue, such eillceer? Caurie and
never knew curt mother. le cannct mourn fer hes, though ee hav.
alevags fale he veced her poring lft in the lies pf those eset i a a
know hat tragedy younould suggest, CAncle. ere youhere, Jhners
you would remind uve cf the attack, and gou would again peint blapre
atgourself. (Sut Vowust say again: the anchorcteshealed me sell. VU
ee ea er Cael decry oe hes Dee. Coen reat pose
Ue DCA IE Gide uel U ha gie dllat pupnenot uate gece yeaa

Le blanve for that attack falls ona single realise, and semeday she
shall pay fer her deeds, in this life cr the next. Dn extling yourself from
Gown paiitly te bunt her, pou merely extend the rufperciig rhe armught.

We, there isne tragedy in my life te compare te that hich Ancle
Rudolph as forced tp bear. Oan PReichten's grief has gone to his
i but Laurie and Uhaue dedicated cur lives to ensuring that his

legacy lives en.

Ce still get ae at Raudelph's sheyp, even five years after hés

disappearance. Deme conve from old friends seeking him cut; we
eee ial ek cigs gu che nel tegael Pa motes ted pace Nes
feiters ave plins for thy agacast the legions of the neg Ynithe
beginning, they cere all ‘addressed te Or. van FRichten, but then we
published mess gelitions of his guides, and ness mere of these letters are
PST ted oo tsa ste AOOL NEE Clictel ceed stohinl libe aasevedl:

Chelows ofnele Rudolph és the only inrepazable tra. edly Laurie
and ace ever suffered cn cur guest te do nee, eas Be prag et egéll
be the last.

tease come heme,

Gennifer COcathermay-Pexgreve

 
