 

avenloft isa world caught between light
( * and darkness. It is home to foul horrors

and lurking nightmares, but even in the

Realm of Dread, evil does not stand

unopposed. Some people who encoun-
ter the creatures of the night fall beneath their
claws, becoming victims. Others succumb to the
myriad lures of evil and join the ranks of the
damned. But some souls possess the virtue and the
willpower to face the forces of darkness and emerge
victorious. These few souls are the heroes of the
Land of Mists. If the player characters persevere,
they can save lives, redeem souls, send villains to
their doom, and, perhaps, leave the world better
than they found it. The path is treacherous, though;
heroes who lack wits or wisdom merely rush to their
graves, and those seduced by corruption face a fate
far less pleasant than death.

Adventurers of every race and class can be
found in Ravenloft, though all must live by the
Dark Powers’ rules. Ifthe Dark Powers find aspecial
ability particularly distasteful — or intriguing —
characters may find its effects subtly twisted. These
changes apply to all creatures in the Realm of
Dread, whether they are lifelong residents or have
just recently emerged from the Mists. The follow-
ing sections provide all the guidelines needed to
reshape characters for a Ravenloft campaign.

* Races reintroduces humans and the nonhu-
man races, explaining their roles in Ravenloft
society.

* Classes details how the Mists affect each of
the D&D Player’s Handbook adventuring classes
and suggests roles they often fill in Ravenloft
campaigns

¢ Skills takes anew look ata few familiar skills
and adds the skill of Hypnosis.

¢ Feats offers several new abilities from which
characters may choose. Heroes in Ravenloft may
be able to contact the spirit realm, walk unnoticed
among the living dead or recall knowledge from
past lives.

* Faiths presents a sampling of Ravenloft’s
most influential religions, including two new cleric
domains.

 

© Equipment provides new gear available to
the heroes — and their foes.

* Final Thoughts then offers a few consider
ations toward shaping a hero's persona.

y misfortune is that I still resemble a man
too much.”
—Victor Hugo, Notre-Dame de Paris

es Although humans make up the vast

majority of Ravenloft’s population, all the civilized
races can be found in one form or another. All
racial traits function as listed in the Player’s Hand-
book. A new race for player characters, the
half-Vistani, can be found at the end of this sec-
tion.

Homelands: Noteworthy cultural centers for
the race.

Recommended Feats: Nonhuman races are
often known for specific traits, such as the dwarven
zeal for metalwork. Members of the listed race
often have one or more of these feats. These are
merely suggestions, however, not restrictions.

Base OR: Racial modifier to the character’s
Outcast Rating; see sidebar.

Human

Humans are the standard by which all other
races must be measured. They form such a vast

 
