 

}

\ a a

  

Starting Languages

The Dread Domains are home to widely differing and often isolated cultures. Thus, no
Common language has arisen. Characters can substitute any domain language for Common to
represent their native tongue and can take domain languages as bonus languages. Chapter Four lists
each domain with its native tongues. A few languages have risen to prominence in the Realm of
Dread and are thus particularly useful. Each language has its own alphabet.

Balok: The oldest language of Ravenloft, Balok spread from its native Barovia throughout the
Balinoks and the southwestern Core. Balok is marked by guttural consonants and thick vowels and
is nor overly pleasant to the ear. However, many of the centrally located domains where Balok is
spoken contain trade routes, so it has come into use as a trade tongue by some merchants and
innkeepers.

Darkonese: This complex and highly structured language has not spread far beyond the
borders of Darkon. However, the sheer size of that kingdom ensures that Darkonese remains
significant. Many nonhumans, such as elves and dwarves, are natives of Darkon and mix Darkonese
with their racial tongues, and many wizards note that the highly precise definitions of Darkonese
words lend themselves well to magical writings.

Mordentish: This language is divided into two distinct dialects with markedly different
vocabularies. “High” Mordentish is preferred by the upper classes, while speaking the “Low” dialect
marks one asacommoner. Scholars posit that this linguistic cleft may have arisen from an imperfect
melding of two separate, now-forgotten languages. The result is a highly flexible language that has
spread throughout the northwestern Core. Due to its association with the culturally advanced
domains of the northwest, Mordentish is widely considered the language of literature.

 

  

Vaasi: This language, most recognizable for its harmonious vowels, is strongly associated with
the cultures of the southeastern Core. By church law, for example, all religious rites of the Church
of the Lawgiver must be recited in Vaasi; all texts must use its script. A patois spoken in Kartakass,
mixing Vaasi with the Sithican dialect of Elven, is considered highly poetic and is much favored
by bards and minstrels.

  
   

Draconic: While few have seen the wily wyrms in the Realm of Dread, their language is still
the preferred tongue of magic. A few scholars suspect that the origins of Ravenloft lie in some other
world, and when that world introduced the arcane arts to Ravenloft, it recorded them in the
dragon’s language. Regardless, Draconic is not a spoken language in Ravenloft; it is merely the
wizards’ conceit to keep their secrets from curious eyes.

 

majority of Ravenloft’s population that many hu-
mans know the nonhuman races only through
rumor or legend. Humans fill every niche in society
and represent a wide spectrum of cultures and
ethnic groups. Traits common among the human
folk of specific domains can be found in Chapter
Four.

Some sages have pondered why humans are so
prevalent in the Land of Mists. Are the Dark
Powers drawn to some inherent spark in the human

Homelands: Human communiti

 

 

settled domains go
man communities.

   

Base Outcast Rating: 0

“~~ Retin
‘ " wrt, ty
By ay ee “ites

spirit that other races lack? If so, it may be this:
Every human holds the potential to perform great
good or to commit heinous evil and can choose
which path to follow. Humans are the masters of
their own nature; it is both their greatest strength
and their fatal flaw.

eee

Nonbuman Races

Despite the speculation above, humans are far
from the only race to possess free will. It is true that
nonhumans possess undeniable, inborn traits, such
as dwarven industriousness or halfling curiosity. A
few sages — all human, of course — claim that

 

 

gs

oo

|

s can be
found in every settled domain. That is, as far as
even Sithicus has tiny hu-
Some domains have no
permanent human settlements, though human
encampments or nomadic elements may exist.

Recommended Feats: Any. See Chapter Four
for traits common to the folk of each domain.
