 

Ravenloft’s inhuman creatures, from elves to
gnomes to vampires to lycanthropes, are all merely
facets of the human soul, placed in the world by
nameless deities to reflect against humanity’s light.
Most nonhumans scoff at this, for their cultural
traits are not ironclad. Nonhumans may have ten-
dencies, but like any other mortal, they are
responsible for their own fates.

With the exception of a very few domains,
such as Darkon and Sithicus, nonhumans face a
cold reception when they roam in the lands of men.
In some lands, nonhumans are simply considered
unnatural — freaks of nature to be pitied or ridi-
culed. In other lands, humans may react with
deeply rooted, superstitious fear. Nonhumans who
visit a few domains, such as Falkovnia and Tepest,
may even be risking their lives.

Caliban

Ores are unknown in Ravenloft, even as crea-
tures of legend. For this reason, no half-ores are
native to the Land of Mists. However, creatures do
exist that fill the half-ore’s role: calibans. Thank-
fully rare, calibans are twisted humans exposed to
curses or foul magic while still in the womb. The
birth of a caliban in a community is often seen as a

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

‘Outcast Ratings

% Most of Ravenloft’s folk live and die within a score of miles from their birthplace and can
. spend their entire lives without ever knowingly encountering the supernatural. When com-
; bined with cultures rich in suspicion and superstition, the result is xenophobia. This is expressed
€ as an Outcast Rating (OR), which may modify the Difficulty Classes of social skill checks
$ performed by any character who appears unnatural or out of place.

& Her race, social standing, physical deformities or even the gear she carries can modify a
y character’s Outcast Rating. As a character’s OR rises, NPC reactions toward her turn from
\ standoffish to fearful.

An Outcast Rating applies as a circumstance penalty on Bluff, Diplomacy, Gather

 

 

7 Information and Perform checks, but it applies as a bonus on Intimidate checks. Outcast Rating

¢ modifiers never apply when dealing with friends or allies, such as other PCs, or others who share
Qe the source of your OR modifiers, such as other members of your own race.

z Example: Elves have a base Outcast Rating of 3. If they interact with nonelves, they suffer

¢ a-3 penalty on Bluff, Diplomacy, Gather Information and Perform checks but enjoy a +3 bonus
é on Intimidate checks.
% Outcast Rating reflects only first reactions; it is possible to improve one’s standing. For each
3 good deed a character performs (stopping a crime, defeating a monster preying on the
af community, helping a farmer harvest crops and so on), that individual dispels some of the
\ surrounding community's fear; her OR drops in that community by 1 point, toa minimum of 0.
3 Some domains may impose their own OR modifiers; see Chapter Four for more details.
