 

sure sign of the presence of witchcraft —specifi-
cally, the corrupting aura of a hag.

Calibansare physically powerful butmisshapen
humanoids. No two calibans look alike, but com-
mon deformities include twisted backs or limbs,
asymmetrical features, bristly hairortusklike teeth.
Calibans are widely considered brutish, savage
creatures; their name isa corruption of “cannibal,”
stemming from their most infamous reputed habit.
In truth, many calibans are simple-minded, petty
brutes, bur this is often the product of their up-
bringing. Rejected asmonsters, most calibans spend
their lives hidden in dank cellars or flee civilization
to roam the wilds. In truth, a caliban’s heart can be
as pure and noble as that of any human.

Use the racial characteristics of the Player’s
Handbook half-ore when creating a caliban player
character.

 

 

 

Homelands: As creatures of unnatural origin,
calibans can hail from any populated domain. Most
are born in lands where magic is relatively com-
mon, such as Darkon, Hazlan and Tepest.

Recommended Feats: Alertness, Endurance,
Great Fortitude, Jaded, Lunatic, Run, Skill Focus
(Intimidate, Survival), Voice of Wrath.

Base Outcast Rating: 5

Dwarf

Dwarves are a stout race, built as solidly as the
mountains they call home. Their skin, typically a

 

 

light tan to dark umber tone, is coarse and often
streaked with ore dust or soot, as dwarves take pride
in displaying the efforts of their labors. Hairand eye
color ranges from rust red through browns to black;
dwarven hair often turns silver or slate gray by
adulthood. Dwarvesprefer thesamesomber, earthen
tones in their clothing, often adorned with pre-
cious metals.

The dwarven mindset centers on the forge and
family. They respect dedication in all forms — to
hard work, to their clan and to codes of honor. A
dwarf holds nothing so precious as her family and
nothing so beautiful as finely worked steel. Dwarves
have little time for frivolity. Their music consists
entirely of dirges for their ancestors or anthems of
clan tradition. Other races often view dwarves as
dour and humorless creatures but retain high praise
for dwarven craftsmanship.

 

Dwarves claim a spiritual kinship with the
earth itself. Some humans have distorted this,
believing that dwarves are actually elemental spir-
its. Many human folktales speak of dwarves who
require a diet of gold and gems or who turn to stone
if touched by sunlight.

Homelands: The center of dwarven culture is
the town of Tempe Falls in Darkon, though nearby
Corvia also hosts a sizeable dwarven population.
Smaller dwarven communities have also spread
south along the Balinoks and to other mountain-
ous regions, suchas the Sleeping Beast of Lamordia.
In recent years, dwarven explorers have also been
making inroads into the forsaken region of the
Mountains of Misery once known as Arak. There
they have been laboring to reopen the abandoned
mines and a long-neglected trade route that once
connected Tempe Falls to Liara in Nova Vaasa.

Recommended Feats: Back to the Wall, Cour-
age, Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Endurance,
Great Fortitude, [ron Will, Jaded, Skill Focus (Craft
[armorsmithing, blacksmithing, stonemasonry,
weaponsmithing]).

Base Outcast Modifier: 3

Elf

Two seemingly unrelated elven societies exist
in Ravenloft. The elves of Darkon tend to have
dark hair and eyes of green, violet or gray. Elves
from the domain of Sithicus all share the traits of
silvery hair and amber eyes. Both groups share the
elven traits of pointed ears, vulpine features and
lithe builds. Elves prefer to dress in light, fine
fabrics such as silk or satin. Sithican elves prefer

 

 
