  
  
    

drab colors, but the fashion of Darkonian elves is
set by season: pastel greens and blues are worn in
the summer, followed by yellows, oranges and reds
as the trees turn color in the autumn. During the
winter months, the Darkonian elves restrict them-
selves to black, white or gray tones, to be replaced
byan explosion of colors with the coming of spring
The “fair folk” are children of nature, re-
spected by some humans but quietly feared by
others. They measure their lives in centuries and
lack the sense of urgency that seems to drive
humans. In times of need, elves can react as quickly
as any other race, but they see nothing wrong with
dedicating months or years to perfecting a sonnet,
observing beauty or engaging in the pursuit of
pleasure. Humans often call elves hedonistic and
claim that they have only a bystander’s under-
standing of death. In fact, in some lands, elves are
commonly thought — however erroneously — to

 

[oper osss eee

   
  
   

loon.

eS

be fey creatures, immortal nature spirits merely
aping the human form. More than one unfortunate
elfhas had her immortality tested by the inquisitors
of Tepest.

 

 

Homelands: Darkon’s Mistlands contain three
primarily elven communities — Neblus, Nevuchar
Springs and Sidnar — where elves mingle freely
with other races. On the far side of the Core,
Sithicus stands as the only domain witha primarily
nonhuman population. Legends speak of still more
elven cities hidden from human eyes by powerful
elven magic or the Mists.

Elves occasionally settle in human lands, where
they can become respected scholars. In some lo-
cales, tales circulate of elves who served as advisers
to entire human dynasties.

Recommended Feats: Alertness, Ethereal
Empathy, Scribe Scroll, Skill Focus (Survival),
Track, any metamagic or item creation feat.

Base Outcast Rating: 3

Gnome

Gnomes are spindly humanoids with tanned
skin and wizened faces. They have fair hair and
large, sparkling blue eyes. Most humans find gnomes
less threatening than other nonhumans simply due
to their small size, but humans remain wary of
gnomes’ reputed inborn magical powers and eccen-
tric personalities. Gnomes prefer to wear
comfortable clothes in bright, primary colors, deco-
rated with gem-encrusted jewelry that would be
gaudy by anyone else’s standards.

Gnomes possess intense intellectual curiosity.
They are fascinated by intricate details, be they
riddles or the fine cogs of a pocket watch. Gnomes
enjoy nothing so much as solving a difficult puzzle
— building patterns out of chaos. Gnomes often
work as alchemists, gemcutters,
clockmakers.

engineers or

Many gnomes also possess a wicked, morbid
sense of humor. Gnomes often pass the time by
telling macabre tales laced with irony, and they
enjoy playing practical jokes, particularly on any-
one they consider too dour. Gnomish practical
jokes are usually remarkably elaborate but are vir-
tually never intended to cause the recipient any
true harm.

Homelands: The largest primarily gnomish
settlement in Ravenloft is the town of Mayvin in
Darkon. Demand for gnomish skills has also drawn
small communities — rarely more than one hun-
dred strong—to Valachan and Hazlan. The largest
