 

 

gnomish population outside Darkon — still no
more than 150 gnomes all told — exists in Nova
Vaasa, where it has become fashionable for nobles
to have a gnomish jester in their courts. Rumor has
it that most of these jesters also se court spies,
aided by their magical talents and small size.

Recommended Feats: Alertness, Craft Wand,
Craft Wondrous Item, Dodge, Open Mind, Scribe
Scroll, Skill Focus (Bluff, Craft [alchemy,
clockmaking, gunsmithing, locksmithing]).

Base Outcast Rating: 2

Ralf-Elf (fey-Born)

Half-elves are the product of rare love affairs
between elves and humans. Although half-elves
inherit most traits from their human parent, they
often retain faint elven traits: slightly pointed ears,
angular features and green or violet eyes. Half-
elves have no communities of their own and tend
to adopt the prevailing human fashions of their
homeland.

Although half-elves are at risk in a few do-
mains, such as Falkovnia and Tepest, they do not
face the same level of animosity many other non-
humans do in human lands. Half-elves are generally

 

 

pitied by both humans and elves; some even con-
sider half-elves mildly cursed by their heritage. It is
said that half-elves are doomed to outlive their
human loved ones and to grow old and die before
the eyes of their elven kin. Half-elves find it diffi-
cult to maintain long-term relationships. Forced
into the life of an outsider — though not reviled
like calibans — half-elves often pride themselves
ontheiriconoclastic nature. Many pour theiralien-
ation and anguish into artistic pursuits, becoming
musicians or wandering bards. A few even reject
their given names, adopting dramatic titles such as
the Wind Haunter or the Deathseeker.

Homelands: Like calibans, half-elves are crea-
tures of unusual birth. A half-elf may be born to a
wandering elf in any domain but most hail from the
regions surrounding the elven lands of eastern
Darkon or Sithicus.

Recommended Feats: Alertness, Iron Will,
Jaded, Redhead, Run, Track, Skill Focus (Diplo-
macy, Disguise, Perform).

Base Outcast Rating: |

Ss eee
