     

Ralfling

Halflings are tiny humanoids, easily mistaken
at first glance for human children. Halflings do
possess a childlike curiosity about the world around
them, which often expresses itself as wanderlust.
Halflings prefersimple, comfortable garb andavoid
ostentation. Halfling hair and eye color is usually
dark brown.

Halflings are lucky enough to avoid most of
the animosity that other nonhumans face. With
their small size and lack of supernatural powers,
halflings present humans with little to fear. Hu-
mans respect halflings’ courage and general good
nature —sometimes toa fault. Humans often treat
halflings with good-intentioned condescension,
believing that all halflings are as innocent and
harmless as the young children they resemble.
Some human bards claim that halflings were cre-
ated when a powerful hag tried to purify a human
asan experiment, drivingall the evil from his body.
The experiment was a success, but the victim was
reduced to half his former size, the “evil half’
vanishingtonone-knows-where. Halflings pay this
legend very little mind.

 

Homelands: Most halflingsare nomadic, wan-
dering in clans from one domain to another. Unlike
the constantly drifting Vistani, however, halflings

 

aver Character[. - =

 

   
    
 

e < oy

tend to take root in a given area for a few years,
experiencing all it has to offer before moving on.
Any settlement in Ravenloft of sufficient size may
boast a halfling community, though these may be
ghettos.

  
   

Some halflings have settled down to form
permanent communities. The largest of these are
both in Darkon. Halflings in the city of Rivalis raise
goats, produce cheese and take pride in their flower
gardens. The town of Delagia supports itselfthrough
fishing and is actually built atop Lake Korst, its
buildings resembling beaver dams.

Tales are told of a village of halflings hidden
somewhere in the forests of Sithicus. The black
knight who previously ruled that land hideously
tortured these halflings. They are now said to be
insane, feral creatures.

Recommended Feats: Courage, Dodge, Mo-
bility, Open Mind, Skill Focus (Diplomacy,
Tumble), Weapon Finesse.

Base Outcast Rating: |

New Race: Ralf-Vistani

Half-Vistani (or giomorgo, in the Vistani
patterna [see below]) are the result of a union
between a Vistana and a giorgio (any non-Vistani
human). Unlike the otherspecial races of Ravenloft,
half-Vistani are entirely human. However, the
traits they inherit from their Vistani blood separate
them from normal men.

 

Love affairs between giorgio and the Vistani
are often torrid and brief. The cultural rift cuts
deeply, so precious few giomorgo ever grow up
knowing both their parents. Most often, the Vistana
parent moves on in the night, abandoning the
child to the giorgio. Rarely, the tribe of its Vistana
parent raises a giomorgo child. In either case, the
child may be cared for but is never truly accepted.
The giomorgo’s giorgio family may fear that the child
will develop the peculiar talents of her Vistani kin,
and since the giomorgo is not fully “of the blood,”
she finds herself unable to share entire worlds of
Vistani experiences.

 

 

A player creating a giomorgo character should
also refer to the Vistani section in Chapter Five for
additional details.

Personality: Broken homes are the giomorgo’s
birthright. Many spend their lives haunted by their
youth; a rejected child often matures into a sullen
and withdrawn adult. It is no small matter to
straddle the cultural rift of their birth, so most
giomorgo choose to adopt one culture over the

oe a
