 

   

other. They either adhere to the customs of their
homeland or wrap themselves in the Vistani mys-
tique. Regardless of the heritage they favor,
half-Vistani tend to be passionate and pessimistic
individuals.

Physical Description: Half-Vistani resemble
their Vistani parents, often inheriting their angu-
lar and aquiline features, eyes and hair of deep
brown or black and dusky or olive complexions. Of
course, giomorgo often exhibit traits of their giorgio
heritage as well. A giomorgocan conceal her Vistani
heritage, fooling giorgio with a successful Disguise
check (considered minor details only). Such tricks
fail against Vistani, however, who can identify
those who are of the blood with but a glance.

Relations: Giomorgo are caught between two
worlds; giorgio treat them like Vistani, and the
Vistani treat them like giorgio. A giomorgo’s out-
look toward nonhumans usually mirrors that of his
homeland. It is not uncommon, however, for half-

 

 

Vistani to be more accepting toward other “unwel-
come” creatures, such as calibans and half-elves.

Alignment: In many ways, the giomorgo life
mimics that of half-elves. Many half-Vistani spend
their lives alienated from society and often grow to
distrustauthority. Giomorgo ethical alignment tends
toward chaos, but they are no more inherently
good or evil than any other humans.

Homelands: The Vistani endlessly wander
throughout the Land of Mists, soa giomorgo may be
born in any domain. The ruthless oppression of
Vistani in Invidia makes native half-Vistani rare in
that domain, while giomorgo are slightly more com-
mon in neighboring Barovia. No permanent
half-Vistani communities exist anywhere in
Ravenloft.

Religion: Giomorgo raised by giorgio typically
adopt the prevalent faith of their homeland. Those
raised by the Vistani are seldom religious; the
Vistani worship no deities and have many legends
of their cruel mistreatment at the hands of godlike
beings in the distant past. Some Vistani, particu-
larly those of the Vatraska tribe, treat fate, the
Mists and the forces of nature with a respect that
approaches reverence, however.

 

 

 

Language: Giomorgo have no language of their
own, instead learning the domain languages of
their homeland. Giomorgo who embrace their
Vistani heritage often also learn patterna, the
Vistani’s spoken language, and tralaks, the Vistani
system of trail symbols.

Names: Giomorgo raised by giorgio are often
given names drawn from their homeland’s cul-
tures. Giomorgo raised by the Vistani are named in
the Vistani tradition, and it is not unheard of for a
half. Vistani raised by a giorgio to be named after her
wayward Vistana parent.

Vistani Male Names: Bela, Grigori, losif,
Karol, Ludovic, Nicu, Pyotr, Simione, Stefan,
Vasile

Vistani Female Names: Ana, Eliza, Isabela,
Lela, Natasha, Papusza, Rozalina, Sofya, Ursula,
Yvonne.

Adventurers: Many giomorgo become wan-
derers, seeking happiness in foreign lands. Many
fall in with other outcasts and eccentrics during
their aimless travels.

Ralf-Vistani Racial Craits
© +2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma: Giomorgo retain
traces of their Vistana parent’s powerful sixth sense,

 

 
