 

 

 

butas outcasts, they lack the Vistani’s fierce ethnic
pride.

* Medium: As Medium creatures, half-Vistani
have no special bonuses or penalties due to their
size.

© Half-Vistani base speed is 30 feet.

¢ +2 racial bonus on Survival checks. A
giomorgo inherits her Vistana parent's affinity for
nature. Provided fuel and some means of igniting a
spark, half-Vistani can always light a fire as a
standard action, even under adverse conditions
(pouring rain, gusting winds and so on). When.
wilderness survival depends on being able to start
a fire, the half-Vistani racial bonus on Survival
checks rises to +4.

© Diluted Blood: For all special abilities and
effects, half-Vistani are considered human, though
they do not gain the extra feat or skill points
standard humans receive. Only pureblooded Vistani
can use special spells or magic items with racially
specific Vistani powers.

* Moon Madness: A giomorgo suffers from the
lunatio during the full moon each month, her mind
clouded by restlessness and anxiety. She cannot
prepare spells or heal naturally during this period.
On each of the three nights of the full moon, she
must succeed at a DC 15 Will save or run wild
under the night sky.

© Base Outcast Rating: 2. A giomorgo who
hides her Vistani heritage can reduce her base OR
to 0 with a successful Disguise check (see above).

* Automatic Languages: Any domain lan-
guage. Bonus languages: Any domain language,
patterna (including tralaks). Half-Vistani often learn
the tongues of their Vistana and giorgio parents.

* Recommended Feats: Alertness, Ethereal
pathy, Lunatic, Track, Voice of Wrath.

© Tribal Heritage: A giomorgo character must
select a tribe from the following list at the time of
creation, reflecting the branch of her Vistani an-
cestry. (Further information on Vistani tasques can
be found in Chapter Five.) This tribe determines
additional benefits and favored class.

Canjar: +2 racial bonus on Spelleraft
checks. This bonus rises to +4 when attempt-
ing to learn new spells. Favored Class: Wizard.

Corvara: +2 racial bonus on Open Lock
and Sense Motive checks. Favored Class:
Rogue.

Equaar: +2 racial bonus on Handle Ani-
mal and Ride checks. Favored Class: Ranger.

 

E

   

 

 

Kamii: +2 racial bonus on any metal-
based Craft checks (e.g., blacksmithing) With
a successful Appraise check, Kamii can iden-
tify metals and determine where any metal
item originated. Favored Class: Rogue.

Naiat: +2 racial bonus on Perform checks.
Naiat havea base Outcast Ratingof0. Favored
Class: Bard.

Vatraska: +2 racial bonus on Heal and
Profession (herbalism) checks. Favored Class:
Cleric.

Zarovan: Racial bonus of (1d10-1d4) to
initiative. Roll at the start of each encounter.
Favored Class: Sorcerer.

Classes

nd Ihave slain a vampire shape that sucked
a black king white,

And I have roamed through grisly hills
where dead men walked at night.

And I have seen heads fall like fruit in
aslaver's barracoon,

And I have seen winged demons fly all naked in
the moon.

 

 

 

 

 

—Robert E. Howard, “Solomon Kane's Home-
coming”

The heroes of Ravenloft come in many forms.
Some heroes, such as barbarians and fighters, are
well suited for battling physical foes. Spellcasters,
such as clerics and sorcerers, wield their numerous
talents against more spiritual threats. Some heroes,
such as bards and rogues, can be invaluable during
investigations or exploration.

Player characters shouldn't be exempt from
the effects of living in the Dread Realms. Strahd’s
famous statement, “I am the Land” is the core of
Ravenloft. Each realm embodies its darklord, just
as each darklord symbolizes his realm. This influ-
ence trickles down through the realm’s society,
reaching everyone — including player characters
— to a certain extent.

Each person who adventures in the Land of
the Mists feels the weight of living and working in
a world ruled by darkness, even though they may
not realize the source of their burden.

The Dark Powers cast their shadow over ev-
erything in the world of Ravenloft, making each
class vulnerable in some way to the miasma of evil
and corruption. This is shown in the various weak-
nesses depicted in each class shown below.

 
