   

There is always a chance that a character's
actions carve a path toward darkness. The
sourcebook Champions of Darkness gives ex-

 

amples of heroes who have fallen and who often
struggle onward in spite of their taint, seeking todo
mighty deeds and somehow redeem themselves.
On the other hand, just as there is always darkness,
there is also always hope. The Heroes of Light
sourcebook highlights this aspect of the Dread
Realm. Both overwhelming evil and great good
coexist in Ravenloft and the triumph of one over
the other ultimately rests upon the choices and
actions of the player characte

All class features altered by the Mists are listed
below. Any class features not listed function nor-
mally in Ravenloft.

 

 

Barbarian

Villages huddle in the frozen wastes of
Vorostokov. Nomads wander the burning sands of
the Amber Wastes. Tiny homesteads struggle to
beat back the cyclopean forests of Verbrek. Life for
the people of these communities is a daily struggle
against unforgiving terrain. Their clans need hunt-
ers, warriors and protectors, and the most powerful
of these is the barbarian. Lone barbarians can also

 

 

be found in other lands, where they live as solitary
hermits or mountain men and avoid the noise of
civilization. Among the monstrous races, barbar-
ians are believed to be relatively common among
lycanthropes and the larger goblinoids.

Barbarians respect physical prowess above all
else; they eschew the practiced combat techniques
and “dirty tricks” of the fighter, seeking to win their
battles through sheer force. Any education a bar-
barian receives comes from folktales heard at an
elder’s knee, so most barbarians are intensely su-
perstitious. The Voros of Vorostokovy, for example,
believe that written words inherently contain evil
magic.

The folk of more “enlightened” cultures view
barbarians as uncouth at best, drunken berserkers
at worst. Tales are whispered of unsuspecting trav-
elers who fell afoul of inbred barbarian clans who
would sell the pelts of anything they could catch:
Barbarians usually adventure to test their might, to
gain power, or to protect their lands and family.

Altered Class features
© Rage (Ex): This operates as stated in the
D&D Player's Handbook. However, two major dif-
ferences affect barbarians in Ravenloft. Even those

 

 

 

 
