 

 

barbarians who hail from outside the Dread Realms
find that they are affected by these changes once
they enter the Land of Mists. When enraged,
barbarians enjoy an additional +4 circumstance
bonus on Fear, Horror and Madness saves. Barbar-
ians not currently in the throes of rage when the
need to make one of these saves arises do not gain
the +4 bonus.

Weaknesses: Barbarians of Ravenloft cannot
voluntarily end their rage prematurely. If no oppo-
nents are left standing, the barbarian may attack
unconscious foes or even his own party members if
they appear threatening until his rage runs its
course. Attacking in this fashion may call for a
powers check at the DM’s discretion, as the Dark
Powers attempt to use the barbarian’s gift for battle
against him.

While barbarians may ostracize a coward, mak-
ing it unlikely at best that they easily give in to fear,
they are overly superstitious, which lays them open
to greater threat from Horror and Madness. Fear
saves are unaffected, but anytime a barbarian must
make a Horror or Madness save, he must do so at a—
2 penalty; —4 if the horrific scene viewed or the
terrible experience seems linked to arcane magic
somehow. Those barbarians from a society that ac-
cepts divine magic are not affected by it in the same
way, though barbarians from tribes that have no
divine spellcasters may be subject to the penalty
when witnessing horrors brought about by such.

Bard

Bards tend to hail from more civilized lands,
where travel is easiest and audiences are most
receptive. Bards in Ravenloft may take the form of
traveling storytellers who offer news of distant
lands, often in highly embellished form, for a hot
meal and a few coins. In some cases, bards are
tortured performers whose talent is barely distin-
guishable from their madness. These bards maintain
their fragile grip on sanity by channeling their
feverish imaginations into their art —and into the
forces of magic. Bards are also commonly associ-
ated with Vistani entertainers — particularly those
of the Boem tasque — who entrance audiences
with their swirling dances and the frenzied music of
their violins.

Many bards, regardless of birthplace, aspire to
study at the famed bardic colleges of Kartakass. For
a bard, little in life yields more prestige than to be

 

 

 

 

 

 

admitted to the Harmonic Hall or to perform in \

Harmonia’s amphitheater.

A whe

oer at:

Bards are restless creatures who wander from
one audience to the next. As such, their calling
often appeals to those who lack communal ties,
such as half-elves or giomorgo. As entertainers,
bards are often adept in the fine arts of diplomacy
and can be invaluable in gaining the trust of local
villagers in strange lands. Most bards consider
themselves observers of the world and seekers of
new experiences and sensations.

Altered Class features

© Spells: Some spells function differently in
Ravenloft. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three.

* Bardic Knowledge: Reliable information
seldom travels far in Ravenloft’s insular realms,
hampering the quality ofknowledgea bard picks up
in her travels. The DC of all bardic knowledge
checks increases by 10 concerning domains that
the bard has never visited. Each month that the
bard spends in that domain reduces the additional
DC by 1, finally negating it after the bard has spent
a full 10 months in the domain. A newly-created
bard character is familiar with a number of domains
equal to her bard level — so, a Ist-level bard
ignores the increased DC on bardic knowledge
checks about her home domain. No bard may use
bardic knowledge to learn the true identities of the
various realms’ darklords. Such knowledge comes
only with experience — if then.

Weaknesses: A bard’s cure spells (such as cure
light wounds, cure moderate wounds, mass cure light
wounds and so on.) have a chance of failure due to
the whims of the Dark Powers. At 2nd level (when
a bard becomes eligible for casting Ist level spells),
the base chance of failure is 50%. This percentage
drops by 5% every two levels thereafter, so that by
the time a bard reaches 1 2th level, she can cast cure
spells with no chance of failure.

Tales of Death and Madness

At the DM's discretion, an evil bard
can give such a chilling performance (such
as singing a dirge, enacting a play of foul

\ murder or telling a tale about one man’s

descent into corruption) that he truly fright-
ens his audience. If the bard performs with
the intent of instilling terror, those in her
audience are required to make a Fear save
(see Chapter Three) with a DC of (bard’s
Perform check -10).

Se?

 
