 

Cleric

Clerics bear the sacred responsibility of carry-
ing the divine message of their patron deity to his
mortal followers. Of course, in Ravenloft, this
message is as likely to be the Lawgiver’s ceaseless
demands of obedience or Zhakata’s ravenous cru-
elty as it is to be the words of hope offered by deities
suchas Ezra or the Morninglord. Clerics in Ravenloft
may be the shepherds of their congregations, ad-
venturing to remove the faithful from danger, or
they may be itinerant priests, preaching the word of
their deity in the earnest hope of converting new
followers to their faith. Then again, they might be
depraved cultists, secretly carrying out the obscene
mandates of their foul patron.

Additional information on the religions of
Ravenloft can be found in the Faiths section.

Altered Class features

® Spells: Some spells function differently in
Ravenloft. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three.

© Spontaneous Casting: If they want, evil
clerics of non-evil deities can opt to channel spell
energy into either inflict or cure spells in the same
manner as neutral clerics of neutral deities. This
choice usually determines whether the cleric turns
or commands undead, but the Dark Powers reward
those who choose evil over good in their descent.
Therefore, unless the specific deity commands oth-
erwise, such clerics may choose tocommand undead
rather than turning them when it suits them to do
so. Naturally, this calls fora powers check (with the
percentage based on how detrimental such achoice
is to either the cleric, her companions or bystand-
ers).

¢ Turn or Rebuke Undead (Su): See sidebar.

Weaknesses: Ifa good or neutral cleric fails to
turn undead, she may attempt to rebuke them
instead — at a cost. The cleric rerolls her turning
attempt with the intention of controlling the
undead. Whether or not she is successful, the cleric
must make an immediate powers check equal to
breaking an oath to one’s own faith (10%). Evil
clerics may do the opposite — at the same penalty
— attempting to turn undead they cannot rebuke.

  

 

Good and neutral clerics who commit any
other questionable acts that call for a powers check
must do so at twice the normal chance for failure.
The Dark Powers offer seduction to all folk, but
judge those whose power stems from theideites
most harshly.

 

 

Curning and Rebuking Undead

The connection undead have to the
Negative Energy Plane is strengthened in
Ravenloft. All undead add +1 to their Turn
Resistance. If an undead has no listed Turn
Resistance, then consider it to have +1 Turn
Resistance. This modifier stacks with those
imposed by a sinkhole of evil (see Altered
Magic in Chapter Three).

All undead darklords automatically add
abonus on their Turn Resistance equal to +1
ortheir Wisdom modifier (if positive), which-
ever is greater.

‘
‘
5
\

 

al

mo
_

In other worlds, ifa cleric or paladin has
twice as many levels as the undead have Hit
Dice, she would normally destroy any undead
that she would ordinarily turn. In Ravenloft,
turned undead are destroyed only if pre-
vented from fleeing from the source of turning
f by the best and fastest means available to

them as their next action.

‘ Example: A 9th-level cleric successfully
turns a 4-HD wight. On its next action, the
turned wight must use a double move to flee
as far as it can from the cleric. If the wight is
unable to flee from the cleric — whether
magically bound, hemmed in by other foes or
simply cornered — it is destroyed.

Seay

heme

 

Druid

Druids are the pagan practitioners of a truly
ancient religion who revere and draw power not
from any deities, but from nature itself. According
to tradition, the first druids entered Ravenloft with
the domain of Forlorn, but they spread to many
other lands in the centuries that followed. Druids
are the guardians of the untamed wilds. Most druids
are secretive about their faith and avoid civilized
lands, with good reason: not only do druids find the
cities of mankind unsettling, they often face hostil-
ity from ignorant locals. Most folk in Ravenloft
know of the druids only through the filter of folk-
lore, and they often confuse druidic magic with
witchcraft, a feared and poorly understood form of
magic said to be the plaything of hags. To avoid
danger, many druids pass themselves offas clerics of
“civilized” deities when passing through settled
lands.

 

 
