     

Druids strive to preserve the purity and balance
of nature. Many claim that the Lands of Mists are out
of balance, tainted — or even overrun — by seeping,
unnatural evil. Most druids adventure to eliminate
inkholes of evil, restoring the natural balance

 

these

 

and fearsome beauty of their beloved wilderness.

Altered Class features

* Animal Companion (Ex): Animal companions
may fall under the influence of powerful domain lords. A
druid’s companions do not forget their friendship, how-
ever,anddonotattack the druidorhercompanionseven
ifa darklord directly commands them to do so. Animal
companions in these situations often flee toresolve their
conflicting loyalties. These animals often shadow their
druidicmasters, fearfully spyingon them fromadistance.
Ifananimal companion leavesthe influencingdarklord’s
domain, its behavior returns to normal. See Altered
Magic in Chapter Three for more details. Druid’'s com-
panions are not dread companions.

 

   

 

Should a druid turn to evil, her animal compan-
ions desert her. Once the druid has turned to evil any
new companions called are dread companions.

© Woodland Stride (Ex): Thisability does not
allow the druid to cross a closed domain border

¢ Trackless Step (Ex): While the druid leaves
no physical trail, she still leaves her scent that can
be followed by beasts (and even intelligent mon-
sters) with the Scent special ability.

© Venom Immunity (Ex): This ability does not
protect against the effects of closed domain borders.

Weakness: Because they serve neutrality, dru-
idsareastep closer toevil than good characters. They
must be careful not to cross the line in their zeal to
protect the natural world. Further, some lands carry
within thema taint from the darklord of the domain
Slowly, such lands may influence the druid toward
evil acts in their defense. Any land that harbors a
sinkhole of evil of rating 3 or above may be affected.
Within 20 miles of such a phenomenon, the chances
of these lands evoking evil acts from druids within
their borders is as follows:

Caint from Sinkboles

Sinkhole Chance of Evokes
Rating Taint Evil

3 30% 10%

4 50% 20%

5 70% 30%

Druids who commit evil acts must make pow-
ers checks. Those who fail two or more powers

 
