 

checks change alignment toevil. While they main-
tain their basic class, they become blighters of the
land rather than protectors, seeking to add to the
corruption of the land and its inhabitants.

fighter

Fighters are “everyman” heroes: men
women, lacking in any supernatural gifts, who
prefer to face their obstacles head on. Fighters are
found in every settled domain and fill any niche
requiring martial skill and physical prowess. They
serve as armored knights in Darkon, Nova Vaasa
and the Shadowlands, and toil as soldiers in
Falkovnia’s armies. Their ranks may include any-
thing froma constable ora bodyguard toa thuggish
bandit or even just a peasant with long practice in
defending her livestock from cunning wolves.

Fighters tend to adventure for clear-cut, mun-
dane reasons. Like anyone else, they seek to better
their stations in life and secure their happiness. A
fighter might adventure to seek fame and fortune,
to pursue justice or vengeance or she may simply
follow her own moral imperatives. Fighters are
often invaluable when battling physical threats,
but without magical aid, they can find themselves
all but helpless against some unnatural foes.

Altered Class features

* Bonus Feats: Fighters add Back to the Wall,
Courage, Dead Man Walking and Jaded to their list
of possible bonus feats.

Weakness: Just as any other class, fighters may
become corrupt through gaining too much power.
When someone offers a physical solution — often
a violent solution — to most problems and doesn’t
spend much time examining his role in life, it is all
too easy for him to lose sight of a greater purpose in
the name of glorying in gore for its own sake. If a
fighter uses force in most situations, especially too
much force for the threat offered, he may be on the
road to corruption. It is one thing to turn to
violence once diplomacy and stealth have failed,
but rushing into combat first or relishing pounding
lesser threats into the ground may call for a powers
check at the DM’s option.

If a fighter never offers an intelligent foe the
chance to surrender, he should be required to make
apowers check. This is not true, however, ifthe foe
has proved to be an ongoing villain who has es-
caped justice numerous times due to clemency
offered in the past or unless offering such poses a
clear danger to the fighter’s party. As fighters

 

and

 

advance in levels and kill more monsters and
people, the DM mightalso call for powers checks to
indicate the hardening or deadening of the
character’ssoul as he becomes inured to dealing out
death.

For those DMs who prefer an easier way to
determine when to ask for a powers check, you may
assume there is a base 5% chance per level above
Ist that a fighter commits some action worthy of
calling for such a check. Every obviously selfless,
humble and good action performed may reduce this
percentage by 1%, but the chance never falls below
1% total. Those who dance on the precipice by
acting in an evil manner may add to the percentage
chance by +1% for each instance of uncaring or
evil action. Obviously, those who commit atroci-
ties should not receive a DM's roll to determine if
they need to make a powers check. Some things
should simply spell automatic failure.

Monk

In some ways, monks have much in common
with clerics. They primarily concern themselves
with matters of the spirit. Unlike clerics, however,
monks place little faith in higher powers. A monk
turns her eyes inward, seeking to use strict disci-
pline, intense meditation and focusing exercises to
perfectly purify her spirit (or ki) and, through it, her
flesh. Monasteries dedicated to this pursuit are
nestled in the exotic realms of Rokushima Taiyoo
and Sri Raji. In the latter domain, the monks
(called fakirs in the Rajian tongue) test their inner
strength by dealing sometimes-grotesque physical
punishments on themselves, such as piercing their
flesh with iron skewers and hooks. The monk
tradition also exists in the lonesome city of Paridon,
where the local adherents have melded it with
occult lodge traditions to create the “theological
philosophy” they call the Divinity of Mankind.

Tales also exist of lone monks who wander
other domains. Rather than joining monasteries,
these monks often learn under a single master and
pass on their teachings to a single apprentice.

Monks are keenly aware that they live in a
world brimming with carnal and spiritual tempta-
tion. Those who choose to adventure do so to set
themselves against these honeyed barbs, knowing
that inner strength means nothing if it is never
tested. Some monks are selfish, purifying their
spirits in the pursuit of power, but other monks
wander to help steer those souls who lack the

 

 

 
