   

enlightenment to protect themselves from corrup-
tion.

Altered Class features

* Diamond Body (Su): This ability does not
protect against the effects of closed domain bor-
ders.

© Abundant Step (Su): This ability does not
allow the monk to cross closed domain borders.

© Empty Body (Su): This ability allowsaccess
only to the Near Ethereal. See Altered Magic in
‘Chapter Three formore on ethereal effects

 

© Perfect Self: If the monk has a good or evil
moral alignment, she develops a reality wrinkle
with an initial radius of 1,000 feet per level. If the
monk fails any power checks, consider them failed
power rituals; each failed check adds 1d4 corrup-
tion points to the monk’s total and halves the
wrinkle’s radius. See Fiends in Chapter Five for
more details.

Weakness: Whatever their initial motiva-
tion, monks’ self-absorption may lead them into a
disregard for others in their single-minded pursuit
of perfection. Some may even think they are still
acting for the good of others when they have, in
fact, fallen into arrogance and conceit. As they

become ever more concerned with advancement
of their physical and mental prowess, monks also
become more detached from the world around

them. Thus, they may commit deeds they once
considered unthinkable, inviting the attention of
the Dark Powers. Similar to fighters, with each
level beyond the first, monks havea 5% chance per
level to fall to corruption. Selfless acts reduce the
chance by 1%, but never below a base chance of
1%, while cruel, unthinking or evil acts increase
them by 1% in a like manner (if such specific
actions do not already call for a powers check at a
higher percentage chance).

Paladin

Noone in Ravenloft simply decides tobecome
apaladin. They are extremely rare, the chosen ones
of divine forces, selected for their spiritual purity.
These divine forces imbue paladins with holy pow-
ers, appointing them to champion the meek and
deliver justice to the forces of darkness. Paladins
tend to see good and evil as living, elemental forces
that should be easily divided into black and white.
Of course, true paladins understand the difference
between the pure, unremitting evil of a vampire
and the misguided wrongs of a drunken bully, and

 
