y

4
5

 

 

en

 

 

Dread Companions

Some classes call upon the world for a steadfast animal companion, and the world responds.
In Ravenloft, it falls to the Dark Powers to heed this call. Their response is the dread companion.

The dread companion is a template that should be added to any familiar or paladin’s mount
summoned within Ravenloft. A dread companion uses all the base creature's s 's and special
abilities except as noted here. The creature’s type changes to magical beast (if it isnot one already).

Dread companions share their master’s ethical alignment, but their moral alignment is always
evil. Do not be mistaken; they are not mindlessly malicious, nor are they dedicated to their master’s
destruction. Indeed, they are utterly loyal to their masters — to a fault.

Dread companions share an empathic link with their masters. Through this link, they are privy
toall their master’s innermost thoughts and desires. Their masters may understand why some wishes
are best left unspoken, but dread companions lack a conscience. They cannot grasp why their
master’s desires should be repressed, no matter how dark or selfish. If the master desires an object,
the companion may try to steal it; if a rival causes its master harm of any kind, the companion may
seek revenge. The dread companion of a scrupulous master knows that its master does not want to
acknowledge her unspoken desires, and may act in secret. In psychological terms, when a character
calls for a familiar or paladin’s mount in Ravenloft, she receives her own id in flesh and blood.

When the master is at low levels, a dread companion has a rather dull mind (see the respective
sidebars in the D&D Player's Handbook). As the master gains power, however, the intellect of her
dread companion follows suit. The dread familiar of a neophyte wizard may just seem mischievous;
at higher levels, that same dread familiar is capable of devious and cunning plots.

When a dread companion is faced with a situation that would call fora Fear, Horror or Madness
save, it does so independently of its master. Indeed, some of the most stalwart dread companions
are inured to the terrors that send their masters fleeing. Note also that a dread companion toa good
or neutral character has different modifiers to these checks, due to its own inherently evil

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

alignment. Special cohorts (see the D&D Dunge.

on Master’s Guide) are treated the same way.

Familiars and other companions brought in from other realms (that is, not native to the

Ravenloft world) do not become dread compani
other traits.

 

as me
they react appropriately. Paladins blinded by hu-
bris quickly become servants of the Dark Powers.
The divine forces that grant a paladin her
special abilities are as faceless as the Dark Powers
themselves, in fact, they may well be the Dark
Powers. Evidence exists, however, that paladins
are an aberration in the grand tapestry the Dark
Powers have woven for themselves. Paladins pos-
sess extensive, powerful gifts in their personal
life-quests against the forces of evil, but in many
ways, the deck seems stacked against them. The
Dark Powers may seek to destroy paladins in their
realm, or it may be that the Dark Powers are
enraptured with the potential paladins hold, and
they simply provide them with fitting challenges
Paladins native to Ravenloft usually ascribe
their divine powers to the prevailing deities of their
homeland. They almost never adventure simply
for the pursuit of lucre or personal gain: they seek

 

ions. They retain their original alignments and

out and battle evil because they know it is the right
thing to do. It is the rare paladin indeed who dies
of old age in Ravenloft; many become fatalistic as
they proceed through life, knowing that the ex-
amples they leave after theirdeaths are as important
as the actions they took in life.

Altered Class features

* Detect Evil (Sp): No mortal magic can
detect moral alignment in the Realm of Dread. In
Ravenloft, this ability usually duplicates the effects
of the spell detect chaos. In two cases, however, the
paladin’s spiritual purity allows her to come close
to defying the edicts of the Dark Powers. First, a
paladin can use this ability to detect Innocents (see
Powers Checks in Chapter Three). Atthe extreme
opposite of the moral spectrum, a paladin can also
use this ability to sense the true nature of evil
outsiders.
