 

* Divine Grace (Su): The paladin’s noble
spirit bleeds out into the world around her, subcon-
sciously placing virtuous minds at ease and sinister
minds on edge. The paladin can apply her divine
grace bonus when attempting to improve the reac-

tions of good NPCs (effectively allowing her to
count her Charisma bonus twice). However, this
modifier counts as a penalty when attempting to
improve the reactions of evil NPCs (effectively
negating the paladin’s Charisma bonus). Note also
that the divine grace bonus applies to all Fear,
Horror and Madness saves.

¢ Aura of Courage (Su): Although the
Ravenloft paladin remains immune to magical
fear, she is not immune to “natural” Fear saves,
which are the product of her own sense of survival
(Inasense, playing a PC immune to fear ina horror
campaign is simply missing the point.) Instead, the
paladin receives the Courage feat as a bonus feat at
2nd level.

* Divine Health (Ex): This protection is not
inviolate in Ravenloft. Darklords and curses are
powerful in the Realm of Dread. As such, the
paladin is not immune to diseases spawned by these

  

 

 

 

 

sources.

© Turn Undead (Su): See sidebar on turning
and rebuking undead (above).

© Spells: Some spells function differently in
Ravenloft. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three.

* Special Mount (Sp): A paladin’s special
mount is a dread companion. See the Dread Com-
panions sidebar.

© Disruption (Su): As a paladin’s divine
powers grow in strength, they begin to disrupt the
very planar fabric of the evil-tainted world around
her. Although this disruption is negligible when
compared to that caused by a good outsider,
darklords can sense the presence of a paladin in
theirdomainsas they wouldsense a festering wound
on their own body. With a successful Sense Motive
check (DC = 25 - the paladin’s level), a darklord
can detect the approximate location of a paladin
within her domain within a one-mile radius (“in
that town” or “in the woods west of this keep”).
With an extraordinary success, the darklord nar-
rows the approximate location down toa 100-foot
radius. The darklord automatically retries the Sense
Motive check once per 24 hours. It is rumored that
in the past, darklords could automatically sense
paladins in their domains, but if these rumors were
true, how would any of the holy warriors survive
past their formative years?

 

  

Weakness: As with good and neutral clerics,
paladins who commit questionable acts must make
powers checks at twice the usual percentage (i.e., a
3% chance becomes a 6% chance).

Ranger

Like the barbarian and druid, rangers are most
at home in the wilderness. Unlike those classes,
however, rangers are often welcome in civilized
lands, particularly rustic communities where the
wilds press close. Like druids, rangers strive to
maintain an uneasy balance between nature and
civilization. Where the druid protects nature from
the intrusions of mankind, rangers often guard
humans from nature’s savagery. In untamed lands
such as Vorostokov, they may hunt game to pro-
vide for their clans or scout out new territory for
settling. Rangers in developed lands are usually
employed as game wardens for noble estates. In
Sithicus, elven rangers patrol the deep forests astride
monstrous stag beetles, hunting evil creatures and
discouraging foreign visitors. Most folk consider
rangers somewhat rustic, but their skills are gener-
ally respected.

 

Rangers are master trackers and scouts. Rang-
ers usually adventure to eliminate dangerous beasts
and other menaces from their chosen territories.
Some patrol the wilds to protect or provide for their
homelands. Others, particularly lycanthropes, prey
on humanity, becoming more dangerous than any
beast.

Altered Class Features

© Spells: Some spells function differently in
Ravenloft. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three.

* Animal Companion (Ex): At 4th level,
rangers acquire an animal companion equal to a
druid’s animal companion as if gained at 2nd level.
Such animal companions are not dread compan-
ions, but may fall under the influence of powerful
domain lords. A ranger’s companions do not forget
their friendship, however, and do not attack the
ranger or his associates even if a darklord directly
commands them to do so. Animal companions in
these situations often flee to resolve their conflict-
ing loyalties. These animals often shadow their
ranger masters, fearfully spying on them from a
distance. Ifan animal companion leaves the influ-
encing darklord’s domain, its behavior returns to
normal. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three for
more details.

 

 
