 

Should a ranger turn to evil, his animal com-
panions desert him. Once the ranger has turned to
evil any further companions called (through the
use of animal friendship spells and the like) are dread
companions.

Weakness: Like fighters, rangers have achance
to turn to corruption due to their violent natures
and practices. Because they spend less time among
mankind, however, their base chance for turning
to corruption is only 1% per level above the first.
Evil actions may raise the chance by 1% as per
fighters and monks, but selfless or good ones do not
diminish the ranger’s chance of falling as it is
already less than other combative characters.

Rogue

Like fighters, rogues lack any supernatural
gifts. Where the fighter seeks confrontation, how-
ever, the rogue prefers to solve problems through
intellect and guile. A rogue knows that there’s no
point in fighting a chamber full of zombies if you
can find the secret passage that bypasses them.
With their extensive expertise in skills and their
impressive bag of tricks, rogues can be invaluable
when creeping through ancient tombs or interact-
ing with suspicious NPCs. Rogues are commonly
associated with thieves and tricksters, but they can
just as easily be explorers, investigators or even a
mere — if sharp-witted — townsperson.

 

 

Rogues often adventure in the name of per-
sonal gains; they like to know “what's in it for
them.” The rewards a rogue fights for may be
wealth or political power, but a rogue is just as
likely to adventure to ensure the safety of a loved
one or to gain the satisfaction of a mystery solved.

Most rogues are opportunists. Some specialize
in pure theft, others in chicanery, extortion, misdi-
rection or con artistry. Whether they use their
innate abilities, learned skills or utilizing mystic
powers, rogues attempt to take what isn’t theirs or
gain something for nothing. They don’t even stand
and fight, risking their lives when they enter com-
bat, but instead learn how to use deceit, stealth and
their ability to hide to sneak attack their oppo-
nents. Nothing is straightforward about rogues
unless it is their penchant for greed and love of
keeping their involvement in most things hidden
— at least from anyone likely to imprison or punish
them. Perversely, they may enjoy taunting those
who serve the law with the knowledge that the
rogue has gotten away with something thatcan’tbe
proved.

 

 

ok

2 Opts = t
2

   
     

 
 

Altered Class Features

As the D&D Player’s Handbook rogue.

Weakness: Because rogues cheat their way
through life, they lay themselves open totaking the
quick and easy path in everything they do. It’s easy
to tempt rogues into overstepping the fine line
between neutral self-interest and deliberate evil.
They may even be unaware of the change when it
comes. For each level beyond the Ist, rogues hav
a base 1% chance of falling to corruption just like
fighters and monks. Each time a rogue kills some-
one using a sneak attack, that chance rises by 5%,
even if the death is unintentional due to misjudg-
ment of how wounded an enemy is. The rogue
cannot “pull his punch” when using a sneak attack
as the whole point of such a maneuver is to maxi-
mize the accuracy of the attack to cause the most
damage. As with fighters, when rogues use their
talent to kill an obviously evil and dangerous foe
who has escaped justice and harmed the rogue’s
party in the past, such a penalty should be waived
if the rogue is protecting his friends. Obviously evil
actions also raise the chance by 1% each.

   

Selfless acts, such as giving all his money to the
poor may lower the chance by 1% each as long as
they seem to be undertaken for truly altruistic
reasons rather than a player’s attempt to work the
percentages. Such lowering of the percentage
chance cannot go below a base 1% chance.

Sorcerer

Sorcerers are born with inherent magical pow-
ers. Depending on one’s point of view, this may be
a fantastic gift or a wretched curse. Asa rule, the
denizens of Ravenloft are highly suspicious of any
beings with inherent magical powers, viewing them
as both more and less than human. Common
folktales, however misguided, claim that sorcerers
are changelings left by the fey or reviled practitio-
ners of witchcraft or even that they gain their
powers through trafficking with fiends. Sorcerers
are known to be common among Vistani women;
the spell lists of Vistani seers are almost exclusively
drawn from the schools of divination and enchant-
ment. Male Vistani who exhibit sorcerous powers
are killed at once, lest they grow to become Dukkars.

No sorcerer asks to be born with magic in her
blood, but adventurers who continue to advance in
the class chose to further develop their talents.
Even so, sorcerers are wise to reveal their magical
gifts only to those they trust.
