Assupernatural anomalies themselves, sorcer-
ersare often fascinated by other strange phenomena.
Sorcerers frequently adventure to explore the
world’s unnatural mysteries, seeking to unravel the
riddle of their own existence.

Altered Class features
© Spells: Some spells function differently in
Ravenloft. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three.

 

¢ Familiar: A sorcerer’s familiar is a dread
companion. See the Dread Companions sidebar
for more details.

Weakness: Fascination with exploring the
unnatural can lead sorcerers down some very dark
paths. Whenever sorcerers learn new enchant-
ment, evocation or necromantic spells there is a
base 5% chance per spell learned that the sorcerer
devolves into evil. This is due to the nature of th
spells that manipulate and control others, evoke
deadly effects or meddle with the powers of life,
death and undeath. This is nota cumulative effect,

 

ec

but instead a 5% chance each time a new spell is
learned. If the sorcerer turns toward evil, he must
make a powers check as if he had committed a
major betrayal of a stranger (3%).

 

 

Qizard

What a sorcerer gains through reluctant birth-
right, wizards must earn through years of toil.
Wizards call on arcane magic to bend reality to
their will — they change one creature into an-
other, animate the dead to serve them or summon
eldritch forces to smite their foes. They command
all this without even the veneer of spiritual guid-
ance divine spellcasters receive. Endless years of
study and research, combined with their need for
forethought, often result in wizards developing at
least mildly obsessive and controlling personali-
ties. Some wizards grow drunk on their own power
orare corrupted by the evil forces inherent in their
spells and begin to think they are the sole arbiters
of their fate.

Wizards are respected or even admired in some
domains, such as Darkon and Hazlan, but often
conceal their arcane powers in les pting lands.
Wizards can be found in nearly any domain, how-
ever, often lurking in remote towers or secretly
using magic to further their goals in other arenas.

 

a

 

‘Adventuring wizards know that the study of
arcane magic is a great temptation but that the
rewards are just as great. Although wizards lack the

 
