 

physical prowess of many other sdveitaren their
spells can harm creatures of the night that laugh at
the mightiest swing of a fighter’s sword. Wizards
often adventure to learn new arcane secrets and
add to their power.

Altered Class features

© Spells: Some spells function differently in
Ravenloft. See Altered Magic in Chapter Three.

¢ Familiar: A wizard’s familiar is a dread
companion. See the Dread Companions sidebar
for more details.

Weakness: Just like sorcerers, wizards may fall
to the lure of having intoxicating power and ex-
ploring dangerous arcane knowledge. Whenever a
wizard learns a new enchantment, evocation or
necromantic spell, she has a base 5% chance of
succumbing to evil’s seductive power. Thisis due to
the nature of these spells that manipulate and
control others, evoke deadly effects or meddle with
the powers of life, death and undeath. This is not a
cumulative effect, but instead a 5% chance each
time a new spell is learned. If the sorcerer turns
toward evil, he must make a powers check as if he
had committed a major betrayal of a stranger (3%).

New Prestige Classes

lose encounters with some of the horrors

of the Dread Realms have caused some
} adventurers to dedicate themselves to
the eradication of these monsters. The
following prestige classes enable quali-
fied player characters to gain certain advantages
when fighting their chosen foe. The information
presented here revises and supersedes the descrip-
tion of the witch-hunter that appeared in the
Ravenloft supplement Secrets of the Dread Realms.

Monster Hunter

Known tothe folk ofRavenloftas monster hunters,
these men and women are scholarly adventurers who
research dangerouscreaturesseeking their weaknessesin
order to eliminate them more easily. Monster hunters
generally prefer to defeat their foes using knowledge,
guile and superior tactics rather than brute force. Mon-
ster hunters learn to cast a few arcane spells to assist in
their hunt. A few have been mistaken as witches due to
thisability. Monster hunters are generally of good align-
ment, but some become too zealous or fall into the trap
of taking on their foes’ tactics or worldview, usually
without realizing they have done so. Evil monster hunt-
ers usually still believe themselves to be good, but may

 

 

 

 

overlook a few mistakes ora too-forceful questioning of
innocents in their pursuit of their foes. Monster hunters
may choose to focus on one type of creature, leading
them to become specialized hunters (see below).

Hit Die: d6

Requirements

To qualify to become amonsterhuntet (Mhr),
a character must fulfill all the following criteria.

Skills: Gather Information 5 ranks, Knowl-
edge (the planes) 5 ranks, Sense Motive 5 ranks.

Feats: Iron Will, Track

Special: You must have survived a hostile
encounter with a certain monster type (see the
Specialty Hunter prestige class for categories).Note
also that starting Ravenloft characters may not
have any ranks in Knowledge (the planes) (see
Revisited Skills, below).

Class Skills

The monster hunter's class skills (and the key
ability for each skill) are Concentration (Con), Craft
(alchemy) (Int), DecipherScript (Int), GatherInforma-
tion (Cha), Hide (Dex), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge
(arcana) (Int), Knowledge (dungconicering)! (Int),
Knowledge (local) (Int), Knowledge (nature) (Int),
Knowledge (religion) (Int), Knowledge (the planes)
(Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Search (Int),
Sense Motive (Wis), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis).

Skill Points at Each Level: 4 + Int modifier.

Class features

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A monster
hunter is proficient with all simple weapons, light
armor and medium armor.

Spells: Beginning at Ist level, a monster hunter
gains the ability to cast a small number of arcane spells.
Amonsterhunterpreparesand castsspellsjust asa wizard
does, though he is restricted to certain spells due to the
focused nature of his pursuit (see the Monster Hunter
Spell List below). To cast a spell, the monster hunter
must havean Intelligence score ofat least 10+ the spell’s
level, so.a monster hunter with an Intelligence of 10 or
lower cannot cast these spells. Monster hunter bonus
spells are based on Intelligence, and saving throws
against these spells have a DC of 10 + spell level + the
monsterhunter’s Intelligence modifier. When the mon-
ster hunter may have O spells ofa given level (see Table
2-1), she may employ only bonus spells. A| monster
hunter without bonusspells for that level cannot yet cast
a spell for that level. The monster hunter’s spell list
appears below.
