 

within the same broad category or may diversify
into different ones. A monster hunter can select
her own race as a studied foe only if the monster
hunter or her race is evil. A few monster hunters
are said to be reformed monsters, seeking to wipe
out the menace posed by their own kind.

The monster hunter has scrutinized the habits
and weaknesses of her studied foe so closely that
she gains a +1 insight bonus on Sense Motive
checks when used against that general category of
creature (+2 against the specific foe). Likewise, in
combat, she gainsa +1 insight bonus on attack rolls
and saving throws against her chosen category, +2
against her studied foe.

Should a monster hunter choose to take the
same foe more than once, she severely limits her
effectiveness against all monsters in order to pursue
one particular type of foe. Nonetheless, the ben-
efits can be worth it. If the same subcategory of foe
is chosen twice, the bonus for Sense Motive checks,
on attacks and saves rises to +3. If the subcategory
ischosen forthe third time, these bonuses rise to +4
each.

Thus a monster hunter who has chosen intel-
ligent corporeal undead (ghouls) as her studied foe
would receive a +1 insight bonus on Sense Motive
checks against all undead fitting the description,
anda +2 bonus against ghouls. In like manner, she
would receive a +1 bonus on attacks and saves
against all corporeal undead, but a +2 bonus against
ghouls. If she chose as her next foe to study vam-
pires, she would still only receive the +1 insight
bonus on Sense Motive checks, attacks and saves
against corporeal undead even though she chose
the category twice. She would however, receive a
+2 bonus on Sense Motive checks, attacks and
saves against both ghouls and vampires at that
time.

 

 

If, however, the monster hunter chose to study
vampires only, at Ist level she would receive +1
insight bonus to Sense Motive checks, attacks and
saves against all intelligent corporeal undead and a
+2 insight bonus for these against vampires. At 3rd
level, against all corporeal undead, she would still
receive only the +1 bonuses, but against vampires,
the bonuses would be +3. At 5th level, the monster
hunter’s bonus against all corporeal undead would
remain only a +1, but against vampires, they would
be at +4.

Monster Knowledge: A monster hunter gath-
ers a great deal of knowledge during the hunt. By
2nd level, he may make a special monster knowl-

 

edge check with a bonus equal to his monster
hunter level + his Intelligence modifier to see
whetherhe knows some relevant information about
local monster legends, noteworthy places where
creatures might dwell or renowned items used by or
useful against monsters. (If the monster hunter has
5 ormore ranks in the relevant Knowledge skill, he
gains a +2 synergy bonus on this check.)

A successful monster knowledge check does
not reveal the abilities of a specific monster but
offers ideas as to its nature; neither does it tell the
powers of a magic item but it may give a hint as to
its general function. A monster hunter may not
take 10 or 20 on this check; this sort of knowledge
is essentially random. The DM can determine the
Difficulty Class of the check by referring to the
table below.

be ‘Type of Knowledge
Common, known by at
least a substantial
minority of the
population

20 Uncommon but
available, known by
only a few people in
the area

25 Obscure, known by
few, fiard to come by

30 Extremely obscure, The little-known Shallosia

possibly forgotten by _ plant may be useful against
most who once knew fey

 

 

Examples

Vampires recoil from garlic

Ghasts reveal their presence
by ahorrid stench

Golems usually turn against
their creators.

Craft Talisman (Su): At 3rd level, a monster
hunter can create single-use magic items that hold
spells until triggered. He can imbue a talisman with
the power of any spell he knows that is 3rd level or
lower. He must provide any material components
or focuses the spell requires. If casting the spell
would reduce the monster hunter’s XP total, he
pays the cost upon the beginning of the process in
addition to the XP cost for making the talisman
itself. Likewise, material components are consumed
when he begins crafting, but focuses are not. (A
focus used in crafting a talisman can be reused.)

The talisman has a base price of the spell level
x caster level x 50 gp (a 0-level spell counts as 1/2
level). Spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up
raw materials costing half this base price. A
talisman’s market value equals its base price.

Hunter’s Confidence (Ex): At 4th level, a
monster hunter gains a +2 bonus on all saves
against fear and enchantment effects.

 

 
