   

ster hunter gains the ability to wriggle free from
magical effects that would otherwise control or
compel him. If a monster hunter with slippery
mind is affected by an enchantment spell or effect
and fails his saving throw, he can attempt it again
1 round later at the same DC. He gets only this one
extra chance to succeed on his saving throw.

Monster Hunter Spell List

Monster hunters choose their spells from the
following list. Note that some of the monster
hunter's first level spells incorporate 0 level sor-
cerer/wizard spells.

Ist level—alarm, chill touch, detect magic, de-
tect secret doors, detect undead, disrupt undead, hold
portal, light, protection from (chaos, evil, good, law) ,
read magic, resistance.

2nd level—arcane lock, continual flame,
darkwision, daze monster, expeditious retreat, knock,
magic weapon, see invisibility.

3rd level—daylight, diminish undead, dispel
magic, gentle repose, halt undead, magic circle against
(chaos, evil, good, law), tongues.

4th level—break enchantment, detect scrying,
heroism, locate creature, remove curse, suppress ly-
canthropy.

Specialty Hunter Prestige
Classes

Specialty prestige classes are available after a
character has followed the path of the monster
hunter. Each focuses on one of the different arche-
typal monster sorts in Ravenloft:

Beast-hunter (Bhr) — lycanthropes, skin-
changers.

Demon-hunter (Dhr) — Extraplanar crea-
tures.

Ghost-hunter (Ghr) —incorporeal creatures.

Vampire-hunter (Vhr) — vampires, ghouls,
intelligent corporeal undead.

Witch-hunter (Whr) — hags, sorcerers,
spellcasters, fey creatures.

Hit Die: d6

Requirements
Skills: Intimidate 10 ranks, Knowledge (the
planes) 5 ranks, Knoledge (relevant monster type)
10 ranks, Sense Motive 10 ranks.
Class Requirement: Must have at least 3
levels of monster hunter.

 

 

Class Skills
The specialty hunter's class skills (and the key
ability for each skill) are Concentration (Con), Craft
(alchemy) (Int), DecipherScript (Int), Gather Informa-
tion (Cha), Hide (Dex), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge
(arcana) (Int), Knowledge (dungeoneering) (Int),
Knowledge (local) (Int), Knowledge (nature) (Int),
Knowledge (religion) (Int), Knowledge (the planes)
(Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Search (Int),
Sense Motive (Wis), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis).
Skill Points at Each Level: 4 + Int modifier.

 

Class features (common)

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A specialty
hunter is proficient with all simple weapons, light
armor and medium armor.

Spells: Spell progression continues from the
character’s monster hunter levels. These supersede
rather than adding to the spells he received as a
monster hunter. Any spells noted as 0 means that
the hunter receives only bonus spells at that level.
Note that ifa monster hunter chooses to become a
specialist before attaining 5th level, his spellsshould
be reduced to reflect what he had accordingly.

Studied Foe (Ex): Continue to pick a studied
foe as before, but it must be of the hunting specialty
(vampire, ghost, witch, lycanthrope, demon).
Again, studied foes are chosen at Ist, 3rd and 5th
level. Each time, the bonus on Sense Motive,
attack rolls and saving throws against the chosen
foe increase by +1. Thus, if a monster hunter with
a +4 bonus against vampires chooses to specialize
in vampires, his bonus rises to +5 at 1st level, +6 at
3rd and +7 at 5th level as a specialist.

Improved Critical (Ex): At 3rd level, the
hunter gains the Improved Critical feat against a
monster of the chosen type, even if that monster
cannot normally suffer a critical.

Smite Enemy (Su): At 5th level, the hunter gains
theability tosmite his chosen foe once perday. Add your
Intelligence bonus (ifany) to your attack roll and deal 1
extra point of damage per character level. If the hunter
hasmore than one chosen foe, he can smite any of them,
but can still use the ability only once per day.

Class features specific to each specialty
are as follows.

 

Beast-bunter

Lycanthrope Resistant (Su): Beast-hunters
get a +1 bonus on saves against lycanthropy. This
increases by +1 at each level thereafter.
