 

a
>
“Cable 2-2: Che Specialty Hunter
“S, Class Level Base Attack Fort Ref
; Bonus Save Save
est Fe) +2 +2
; 2nd +1 +3 +3,
be) +2 3 8
% 4th +2 +4 +4
Sth 3 +4 +4
Specialist Level Spells per day
; 2 3 4
fist Drip 1 0
nd PED 1 1
# 3rd Dona 1 1
: 4th Z 2 2 1
a sth a2 2 2
, iia .

Courage (Ex): At 2nd level, you gain the
Courage feat. If youalready have Courage, you gain
the benefit of Dead Man Walking upon making a
successful Fear check.

Ghost-bunter

Turn or Rebuke Undead (Su): At Ist level,
a ghost-hunter can turn or rebuke undead much as
clerics can. Like a cleric, the ghost-hunter makes a
Charisma check and consults Table 8-9 in the
D&D Player's Handbook. He uses his monster hunter
+ ghost hunter levels to determine the most pow-
erful undead he can turn. He then rolls 2d6 + ghost
hunter levels + Charisma modifier to determine
the turn result.

Ghostsight (Su): At 2nd level, the ghost-
hunter gains the Ghostsight feat.

Vampire-bunter

Turn or Rebuke Undead (Su): At Ist level,
a vampire-hunter can turn or rebuke undead much
as clerics can. Like a cleric, the vampire-hunter
makes a Charisma check and consults Table 8-9 in
the D&D Player’s Handbook. He uses his monster
hunter + vampire hunter levels to determine the
most powerful undead he can turn. He then rolls
2d6 + vampire hunter levels + Charisma modifier
to determine turn result.

Drain Resistant (Su): Starting at 2nd level, the
vampire hunter makes a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2
attacker’s HD + attacker's Cha modifier) when he
suffers an energy drain attack from undead. A suc-
cessful save negates the drain attack, including any
negative levels and related penalties that he would

Special

Studied foe; see specialty class

Studied foe, improved critical; see specialty class

Studied foe, smite enemy; see specialty class

|
1
1

nil eile cman

have suffered. (This does not apply to negative levels
caused by a spell or similar effect.) Ona failed save,
the vampire hunter suffers the energy drain and must
recover from the negative level as normal.

Similarly, the creature attempting the drain
attack does not gain 5 temporary hit points foreach
negative level it would have bestowed).

Qitch-bunter

Scent Arcane (Su): At Ist level, the witch-hunter
can smell arcane taint (DC 15 Spot check if within 10
feet); this functions as detect magic but cannot pinpoint
the source and is expressed as a sneeze or foul odor or
other appropriate effect. As the witch-hunter’s level
increases, this ability functionsata higher level, with the
range increasing by 5 feet per level to a maximum of 30
feet. The hunter receives a +1 insight bonus for each
level above the Ist as a witch-hunter added to his Spot
check for scenting arcane.

Hexbreaker (Su): At 2nd level, the witch-
hunter becomes skilled at unweaving the
blasphemous fabric of the black arts. He receives a
+2 insight bonus to Spellcraft checks to identify a
spell being cast if the spell in question requires a
powers check. The witch-hunter also receives a +2
bonus to his dispel check when using dispel magic
against a spell that requires a powers check, regard-
less of whether it is a targeted dispel, an area dispel,
or a counterspell.

Demon-bunter

Scent Infernal (Su): At Ist level, the demon-
hunter can smell extraplanar taint (DC 15 Spot

oe

SS.
