 
   

 

check if within 10 feet); this functions as detect evil
butonly forcreatures or items with the “extraplanar”
descriptor, it cannot pinpoint and is expressed as a
sneeze or foul odor or other appropriate effect. As
the demon-hunter’s level increases, this ability
functions at a higher level, with the range increas-
ing by 5 feet per level toa maximum of 30 feet. The
hunter receives a +1 insight bonus for each level
above the Ist as a demon-hunter added to his Spot
check for scenting the infernal.

Censure Demons (Su): At 2nd level, a de-
mon-hunter can censure demons much as clerics
turnundead. Likea cleric, the demon-hunter makes
a Charisma check and consults Table 8-9 in the
D&D Player's Handbook. He uses his monster hunter
+ demon hunter levels to determine the most
powerful demon he can censure. He then rolls 2d6
+ demon hunter levels + Charisma modifier to
determine censuring damage.

A censured demon is stunned by the demon-
hunter's divinely inspired power (see rules for being
stunned). Ifthedemon-hunter’scharacter level isat least
twice the demons’ Hit Dice, he banishes the demons
back to their home plane. Like a cleric, ademon-hunter
can make a number of censuring attempts per day equal
to 3 + his Charisma modifier. These attempts are
separate from any attempts to turn undead.

Expanded Monster Hunter Spell List
The spells given below are only available to
monster hunters once they choose a specialty.
5th level—dispel magic, greater; hold monster,
repulsion.

Skills

 

he wicked are always surprised to find that

the good can be clever.
— Marquis de Vauvenargues,

O Réflexions et Maximes
Skills are a vital tool to individualize
your character beyond the skeleton of race and
class. An occult scholar might use Knowledge skills
to become an expert on arcane topics and monster
lore. An investigator might specialize in Gather
Information and Sense Motive, perhaps even learn-
ing a few of the roguish skills used by the criminals
she pursues. An “everyman” hero, thrust into hor-
rific proceedings through no will of her own, might
have high ranks in Profession or Craft skills, or she
might focus on skills such as Hide and Move

Silently, hoping stealth will keep her alive.

 

 

= Player Cha

 

 

 
 

Learning Skills i

Ravenloft is a land of isolation and eerie se-
crets. In some cases, a skill may be the prized
possession of a tiny cabal of scholars or a skill
common in one domain may be totally unknown in
another.

When a hero leams a new skill, the pla’
should explain how the character was able to gain
access to that skill. For example, a merchant who
has seldom stepped outside the bustling markets of
Martira Bay is probably skilled in Appraise, Bluff,
Diplomacy and Sense Motive, but she is unlikely to
know the first thing about Survival. On the other
hand, a nomad from the Amber Wastes is likely
quite skilled in desert survival techniques but would
be hard pressed to demonstrate where she might
have learned how to swim. At the DM’s discretion,
Knowledge or Craft skills may require training
under a teacher.

 

 

    

Requirins player & justify chew hero's all
choices can thuskeep some skills appropriately rare
and can be used to enrich a PC’s background.
Chapter Four includes the skills most appropriate
to each domain.

Revisited Skills

Some skills have new uses or special restric-
tions in the Land of Mists.

Bluff

Heroes in Ravenloft campaigns may investi-
gate suspicious strangers, unravel mysteries or
infiltrate secret societies, all of which involves a
great deal of social interaction. Bluff can be used in
a variety of situations; two new uses are presented
here. Both fortune-telling and seduction rely on
your ability to judge the desires of the target. If you
first succeed at a DC 20 Sense Motive check, you
gain a +2 insight bonus on your Bluff check

Telling Fortunes: This is the skill of inventing
plausible fortunes from thin air. It is the art of
picking up clues about a target and telling her what
she wants to hear; it does not include the ability to
actually peer into the future. This skill is most
commonly the tool of charlatans, false prophets
and Vistani seers who decide not to tax their Sight.

The DM should apply acircumstance modifier
based on how far-fetched or specific the prediction
is. A vague, common prediction (“You will meet a
dark stranger”) might carry no modifier to the DC,
while the modifier for an outrageous or easily

 

 

 

 

 

  
