a op ne

    

   

refuted prediction might rise to +10 or even +20.
The use of arcane props such as a crystal ball or a
tarokka deck gives a +2 circumstance bonus on the
Bluff check.

Seduction: Most commonly associated with
the act of physical seduction, this skill can also
include a carnival barker delivering a spiel to draw
patrons into her tent or a crime boss trying to lure
aconstable onto her payroll. Seduction is the art of
manipulating a target by sensing her desires and
promising to deliver on them. With a successful
Seduction check, you can convince a target to
perform a small service for you — perhaps follow-
ing you to a secluded locale or paying a few coins.

The DM should apply acircumstance modifier
based on how well the promise matches the target's
desires, how demanding the requested service is
and whether the seducer can deliver on the prom-
ise. An impoverished family man may be resistant
to physical enticement but willing to accept a few
coins, for example. Likewise, a randy sailor may
respond well to attentions of a lady, but he might
balk if asked to follow her into an acrid-smelling,
web-choked cellar. Use the example circumstances
listed in the D&D Player’s Handbook asa guideline.

Seduction cannot rob a target of her free will.
Ifan NPC attempts to seduce a PC, the PC is not
charmed. Instead, the DM should present the NPC
and her offer in an enticing light. If a seduction
check fails, the target realizes the seducer is at-
tempting to manipulate him — but in the right
circumstances, he may still find the offer appealing.

Craft

The alchemy specialization is used to make
gunpowder. Craft also includes two new specializa-
tions: clockmaking and gunsmithing.

Craft (alchemy): You can create gunpowder
with a successful DC 15 Craft (alchemy) check. It
costs 5 sp to prepare 1 ounce of gunpowder. Youcan
save time by creating multiple ounces in a single
batch, but if you fail the Craft (alchemy) check by
5 ormore, you accidentally ignite the entire batch.
This deals 1 point of fire damage per ounce to
everything within 5 feet. Those caught within the
blast radius can make a DC 20 Reflex save to take
half damage.

Craft (clockmaking) : This skill is used to create
mechanical clockworks, ranging from ponderous
clock towers to delicate pocket watches.

Craft (gunsmithing): This skill is used to craft
gunpowder weapons and bullets. If you have 5 or

 

 

 

ia = cen Cee
5 Oe, th

     
 
 
 

i 16} 4
= ,?
more ranks in clockmaking, you enjoy a +2 synergy
bonus on gunsmithing checks when building or
repairing wheel-lock weapons. The clockmaking
skill is uncommon in domains below CuL 7 (Medi-
eval); gunsmithing first appears at Cul 8
(Chivalric).

If you fail a craft check by 5 or more points
when crafting a bomb (see Equipment), the bomb
explodes.

Randle Hnimal

If you attempt to handle an animal under the
influence of a darklord, the animal adds the
darklord’s Charisma bonus to the DC of your
check. (See Enchantment in Chapter Three for
more details.) If the darklord is not trying to oppose
your handling of the animal, the DM may rule that
this penalty does not currently apply.

Knowledge

The fields of study available to characters in
Ravenloft require some commentary.

Monster Lore: A character who wishes to learn
about the things that stalk the Realm of Dread must
pursue different areas of knowledge depending on
the type of monster in question. Knowledge (arcana)
covers constructs, dragonsand magical beasts; Knowl-
edge (dungeoneering) covers aberrations and oozes;
Knowledge (local) covers humanoids; Knowledge
(nature) covers animals, fey, giants, monstrous hu-
manoids, plants and vermin; Knowledge (religion)
covers undead; and Knowledge (the planes) covers
outsiders and elementals. These skills can be used to
evaluate a character’s knowledge of the habits or
weaknesses of that creature type.

Knowledge (the planes): By its very nature, the Land
of Mists clouds the minds of those who dwell within. In
Ravenloft, Knowledge (the planes) focuses on the plane
ofthe Realm of Dread specifically, as well as on outsiders,
elementals and magic relating to it. This represents an
understandingoftheplanarfabric ofthe RealmofDread,
including the Mists, the nature of domains, closed
borders, darklords and so on.

This is an extremely rare skill, known only by
a handful of arcane scholars, most of whom are
darklords. It is considered a cross-class skill for all
classes unless noted explicitly otherwise in
Ravenloft material. No player character may begin
the game with ranks in Knowledge (the planes),
and must be able to back up its purchase during a
campaign with experience in the subject and “in
game” research.

  

 
