 

The DM may allow characters with this skill to
havesomeunderstandingofplanesaside fromthe Realm
cof Dread (as described in the D Player’s Handbook). Ifso,
increase the DC by 10 for such checks.

Relying on Folklore: Knowledge skills mix aca-
demic study with a broad overview of legend and
superstition. Characters can attempt to use Knowl-
edge skills untrained by relying on their knowledge
of common wisdom and folklore. However, folk-
lore is often misleading. An untrained Knowledge
check is an intelligence check, which the DM
should roll in private. If a character trained in a
Knowledge skill fails the check, she realizes that
she simply does not know the needed information.
If an untrained character fails the check, the DM
should provide a skewed (or even dangerously
unreliable) version of the desired information.

New Shill

The following is a class skill for monks, sorcer-
ers and wizards.
Pypnosis (Cha; Crained Only)

You have studied the hidden workings of the
human mind and can unlock its secrets.

  

Check: Youcan use hypnosis to induce adeep,
calming trance in your subject. The effects of a
hypnotic trance are identical to those created by
the hypnotism spell. Unlike the spell, however, the
skill allows you to hypnotize only one target at a
time, who does not receive the —2 penalty on her
Will save. Each attempt to use hypnosis requires |
hour, If the target is unwilling, you must first
succeed at a Bluff check to disguise your intent.

A Hypnosis check is opposed by the target's
Will save. Loud or distracting surroundings grant a
+2 circumstance modifier to the target’s Will save.
Willing targets can voluntarily choose not to make
their saving throw.

Once the target is hypnotized, you can either
planta suggestion (as per the hypnotism spell) oraid
the recovery of a target who suffers from the effects
of a failed Madness save. The latter option is
detailed under Recovering from Madness in Chap-
ter Three

Retry: Generally, you cannot retry a Hypnosis
check against an unwilling target; the target be-
comes too suspicious to cooperate. Ifattempting to
hypnotize a willing target, you may retry freely.
Retries are a vital component in the process of
helping targets recover from Madness effects, in
fact.

 

 

henhe was angry, one of his eyes became so
terrible, that no person could bear to behold
it; and the wretch upon whom it was fixed
instantly fell backward, and sometimes
expired.
— William Beckford, Vathek
Gothic tales often feature characters whose
strange abilities link them — perhaps unwillingly
— to supernatural forces but allow them to prevail.
Some of these new feats are listed with
roleplaying prerequisites, such as the death re-
quired by Haunted. You can still take these feats at
1st level by incorporating the event into your
character’s background.

Back to the Mall [General]

You are at your best when your situation is at
its worst. The minions of evil may overwhelm you,
but the gods be damned if you don’t take a few of
them down with you.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +2.

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls
and to Armor Class when you are at one quarter or
less of your maximum normal hit points.

Cold One [General]

You are cold and clammy to the touch.

Prerequisite: You must have lost at least one
level to an energy drain attack.

Benefit: Mindless undead (those without In-
telligence scores) ignore you unless you attack
them first. Intelligent undead must succeed at a
Wisdom check at DC 13 to realize that you are not
undead. Due to your slowed metabolism, if you are
ever dying (reduced to-1 to-9 hit points), you lose
hit points at the rate of only 1 point every 2 rounds.
When recovering from damage via natural heal-
ing, you recover only 1/2 hit point per character
level per day of rest (round down, with 1 hp/day as
the minimum). This is an extraordinary quality.

Courage [General]
You are particularly fearless in the face of danger.
Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on all Fear saves.

Dead Man @alking [General]

Aftera brush with the horrors of the night, you
accept that you are living on borrowed time.
