 

 
  
    
    

 

Prerequisite: You must have survived an en-
counter that went against you (failed a Horror save
or been reduced to negative hit points).

 

Benefit: Upon making a successful Fear or
Horror save, you receive a +2 bonus on all saving
throws and skill checks for the duration of the
encounter due to the icy calm with which you face
mortal danger. The recognition that everyone dies
sometime can be a source of strength.

Ethereal Gmpathy [General]

You have the psychic ability to sense the
emotions imbued within ethereal resonance. (See
Sinkholes of Evil in Chapter Three and Ghosts in
Chapter Five for more on resonance.)

Prerequisite: Wis 13 +.

Benefit: You can sense the emotional content
of ethereal resonance within a 30-foot radius with
a successful Wisdom check. DC is determined by
the rank of the resonance.
nk. oc

20
15
10
5
0

Sensing resonance is a move action and can be
retried each round. If you achieve an extraordinary
success, you can see into the Near Ethereal for 1 round
—a visual flash of the resonating scene. However, you
can see only resonance, not ethereal creatures. Some
ethereal scenes may require Horror saves.

Ghostsight [General]

You can see creatures in the Near Ethereal.
Since ghosts make up the majority of creatures in
Ravenloft’s Near Ethereal, folklore views this as
the ability to see the dead.

Prerequisite: You must have hada brush with
death (been reduced to negative hit points or been
slain and then brought back to life).

ARON D

Benefit: You can see creatures that are ethe-
real as if they were normally visible. Unlike the see
invisible spell, this capacity does not reveal illusions
orallow you tosee invisible or astral creatures. Your
ability to see ethereal creatures is limited only by
your own visual range. You are vulnerable to gaze
attacks from ethereal creatures. You have no spe-
cial ability to hear or physically affect ethereal
creatures. This is a supernatural ability.

Special: Youare strangely attuned to the Ethe-
real Plane. Ethereal creatures can see you unusually

  

 

 

  

 

 

oF ad oe, ee Beers oa oe ~ Oo
re ere

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

clearly and must succeed at a Spot check at DC 15
to realize that you are not actually in the Near
Ethereal as well. These creatures may be drawn to
you out of curiosity, desperation or malice.

Raunted [General]

The spirit of a friend, ally or loved one has
returned from the grave to watch over you asa geist.

Prerequisite: For the obvious reason, some-
one close to you must have died.

Benefit: Your guardian spirit normally remains
in the Near Ethereal. Those who can see ethereal
creatures may spot the geist lurking near you, but it is
otherwise invisible and intangible. The geist acts as
a second pair of eyes and ears when it manifests,
allowing youa secondroll on Search, Spotand Listen
checks. The geist can also inform you of events that
take place in your presence while you are asleep or
unconscious, or it can simply offer companionship.

Special: The geist communicates through phan-
tasms; it cannot affect physical objects. You can ask
the geist to manifest whenever you are alone. The
geist immediately vanishes if another intelligent,
living creature enters the scene. You can summon
the geist as often as you want, but each time it
manifests, it deals 1 point of temporary Charisma
damage as it unconsciously draws strength ftom you.

Jaded [General]

Likean experienced investigator ora veteran of the
Dead Man’s Campaign, youhave been hardenedagainst
the horrors of the world by cruel experience.

Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on all Horror
saves.

 

Lunatic [General]

Your mind and body are tied to the cycles of
the moon, making you more energetic and excit-
able as the moon waxes. This effect may be the
result of subtle madness or a diluted supernatural
heritage, such as Vistani blood.

Prerequisite: Chaotic alignment.

Benefit: You have a +1 bonus on all attack
rolls, Fortitude and Reflex saves, and Charisma-
based skill checks whenever the moon is gibbous
(more than half full). This bonus rises to +2 during
the three-night period of the full moon. During the
three-night period of the new moon, you suffer a—
2 penalty on these rolls instead. The modifiers are
reversed for Will saves: +2 during the new moon,
—1 during the gibbous moon and -2 during the full
moon. This is an extraordinary quality.

 
