 

s
§
4
y

es

\

Che Leadership feat }

Asalignment is inherently inscrutable in
the world of Ravenloft, the Leadership feat
becomes a bit quirky.

Leadership does not allow a character to
determine the alignment of his cohorts, at
least in the traditional interpretation of the
alignment model. Additionally, certain fol-
lowers may have hidden problems of their
own —a paladin’s loyal page might truly be a
werewolf, or a minstrel companion might be
in the thrall of a vampire lord. As followers
may be only one alignment step away from the
character they follow (according to the D&D
Dungeon Master’s Guide), some modification
of this is necessary for the Realm of Dread. In
Ravenloft, this alignment step applies only to
the ethical axis. A character of neutral ethics
may have practically anyone as a follower,
wvhilea lawful characterattracts only lawhilooa
neutral characters (albeit of any moral bent),

 

and chaotic characters may attract only fel-

low chaotic types and neutral characters.

alia til pinnacle

Open Mind [General]

Anadaptable mind keeps your sanity resilient.
Benefit: You enjoy a +4 bonus on all Madness
saves.

Redhead [General]

According to the folklore of some domains, people
born with red hair have been marked by the fey.

Prerequisite: Wis 11 +

Benefit: Choose one Ist-level or two 0-level
druid spells. The spell or orisons must be chosen
when the feat is taken and cannot be changed later.
You can cast this spell or each orison once a day as
a druid equal to your character level. Like a druid,
youmust select atime of day when you resain the
spell or orisons, but you do not need to spend time
preparing tt or them, This isa spell- like ability.

Special: You may take this feat only at first level.
You don’t need to take this feat to have red hair, but
you do need to be born a redhead to take this feat.

 

 

Reincarnated [General]
You have vague, dreamlike memories of a
former life. You even possess skills you have never
knowingly learned.

 

ee el

   

Benefit: Choose a nonrestricted skill you do
not have asa class skill. That skill is always consid-
ered a class skill for you. Your spirit was reborn
because it is emotionally linked to a creature that
has lingered in this world. If you ever encounter
your soul mate, it instinctively recognizes you, and
you gain a +2 bonus on all Charisma-based skill
checks when interacting with it.

Special: You may take this feat only at first
level.

Voice of Crath [General]
The unseen forces of vengeance heed your
commands.
Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on all curse
checks. (See Curses in Chapter Three.)

faiths

 

h!... To heap shame on my own head is all
the satisfaction I have left to offer to of-
fended Heaven. My story has drawn down
these judgments: let my confession atone
— but ah! what can atone for usurpation,
and a murdered child!”

— Horace Walpole, The Castle of Otranto

The Land of Mists is home to numerous reli-
gions, ranging from widespread, organized churches
that build towering cathedrals to honor their faith
to skulking, nocturnal cults that perform their
sacrifices in hidden catacombs. This section pre-
sents a sampling of particularly notable or notorious
religions in the Dread Domains. Player character
clerics can choose any of these faiths, though in
some cases this worship — as with the predatory
Wolf Deity — may call the character’s depiction as
a hero into question.

Major Religions
The deities of Ravenloft do not form a single,
continuous pantheon. Rather, they are divided
into numerous, henotheistic religions. The follow-
ersofagiven religion usually recognize the existence
of other deities but often dismiss them as inferior.

Che Hkiri Pantheon

The Amber Wastes are still beholden to the
glories of apantheon of ancient deities. In Pharazia,
the angelic despot Diamabel seeks to forge a reli-
gion in his own name and punishes worship of the
old gods with death. But Diamabel can no more
erase the memory of the deities than the biting

 
