\
{ Che Unspoken Pact

\
\

    

When a cleric enters Ravenloft from another
world, she immediately feels a hollowness slip into
her heart, a void that the strength and compassion of
her deity once filled. Although clerics continue to
receive the blessings of their divine patrons, they no
longer feel their deities at their side. This absence
often causes clerics new to the Land of Mists to suffer
crises of faith or pass into periods of deep depression.

For natives of the Land of Mists, this remoteness
is perfectly normal; they expect the gods to be distant
and inscrutable as a matter of common sense. Some
clerics in Ravenloft claim to be the direct vessel of
their respective deities, but these folk are widely
regarded as madmen and false messiahs.

Without the deities’ watchful eyes to monitor all
that is said and done in their name, many imported
religions experience a theological shift. As godly legends
are passed from one mortal to another, religious teach-
ings often adapt to their new homelands or even evolve
to suit the specific needs of powerful clerics. Tales even
exist of clerics who betrayed the core beliefs of their faith
yet kept their divine powers. As an example, rumors
insist that the grand religion of the Shadowlands, dedi-
cated to the neutral good deity Belenus, is actually
steeped in evil practices.

Why are the deities withdrawn? Why do they
watch in silence as mortals slowly twist their teach-
ings? It may be that the Dark Powers intervene
between a deity and its faithful, warping the flow of
divine magic. Ravenloft’s theologians have identi-
fied one belief that appears in many forms, across
many faiths. This belief, which strains mortal com-
prehension, claims thatthe godsrespectan unspoken
pact with the faceless masters of Ravenloft. The
deities are not to directly interfere in the ways of
Ravenloft’s mortals, and the Dark Powers are not to
meddle in the ways of the deities. Of course, these
collected slivers of a legend fail to explain how the
Dark Powers could enforce this pact — surely they
are not as powerful as the combined might of all the
deities of all the races of all the worlds.

 

 

One final theory is even more extreme. It
holds that the Dark Powers have severed their
realm from the ministrations of the deities entirely.
According to this theory, when mortals in the
Land of Mists pray to their deities, the Dark Powers
reply. Some madmen and heretics claim that a few
deities worshiped in Ravenloft — deities who
continue to answer the prayers of their clerics —
are long since dead. They even insist that some of
these gods simply do not exist and never did.

wrens

 

a Og alge a ae a

Ra agntger owe

desert sands can erase their
ancientshrines. Worship se-
cretly continues in Pharazia,
and the desert nomads and
denizens of Har’Akir still
openly revere the old dei-
ties — and fear their wrath.

Three deities of the
Akiriare particularly signifi-
cant. Ra, the sun disc, is
held to be father and king of
the gods; mortal kings can-
not rule withouthis blessing.
Clerics of Ra often serve as
community leaders and vi
ziers. Osiris, who was slain
by his brother but was re-
stored from death, is now
lord of the afterworld just as
Ra rules the living realm.
Osiris also controls the reju-
venating power of the desert
springs. ClericsofOsirispre- 9
pare corpses and guard the ¢4—
sanctity of death. Lastly, sin
ister cults quietly worship
Set, the deity of deceit and
the destructive power of nature, who slew his
brother Osiris but survived the vengeance of the
deities. Many of Set’s minions pose as clerics to
other gods, seeking to subvert the faithful.

Ra: Symbol: An ankh superimposed on a solar
disc. Favored Weapon: Falchion.

Osiris: Symbol: Crossed flail and staff. Favored
Weapon: Light flail.

Set: Symbol: A coiled cobra. Favored Weapon:
Short sword.

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

} Belenus

In many other worlds, Belenus is just one
member ofa wide pantheon of deities worshiped by
Celtic tribes. In the Land of Mists, Belenus has
become a central deity in the religions of two
otherwise unrelated cultures, one in Tepest, the
other in the Shadowlands. Unfortunately, both
branches of the Belenus faith have developed a
troubling, common element: intolerance.

Belenus is a sun god, like Ra, and the master of
fire. His followers claim that Belenus bestows the
life-giving light and heat of the sun on those who
please him and withholds it from those who earn
