 

his wrath, curs-
ing them with
icy cold and
darkness. Solar
eclipses are
seen as dire
omens.

In Tepest,
Belenus wor-
ship exists as a
rustic folk reli-
gion, and his
clerics also
venerate other
patron deities from his pantheon. The faithful here
often mingle their legends of Belenus and other
deities with time-honored tales of shadow fey,
ravenous goblins and fiendish hags and witches.
For generations, Tepestani clerics were content to
watch over their small congregations, but this
changed in the wake of the Grand Conjunction.
Believing that the domains of G’Henna and
Markovia had been destroyed by the fey, a village
priest of Viktal, a man named Wyan, organized an
isition to fight back against the fey. Fifteen
ater, the inquisition continues and has sadly
gained a reputation for being overzealous. The
clerics execute any “fey” they can catch and may
include calibans, elves, half-elves and sorcerers.

 

  

   

In the domain Nidala, Belenus worship takes
a markedly different turn. Here, a powerful orga-
nized religion honors Belenus, their one true god,
inahugeand glorious cathedral. In the matriarchal
society of the Shadowlands, only women can join
the priesthood, and they must all make vows of
chastity. Men can serve the church, but only as
guardians or enforcers. Worship of any other reli-
gion is ruthlessly persecuted — as are countless
other transgressions. The priestesses of Belenus
gratefully obey the edicts of their nation’s great
protector, the holy warrior Elena Faith-hold.

Symbol: “Celtic”-style Golden sunburst.

Favored Weapon: Sickle.

Che Eternal Order

Azalin, the ruler of Darkon, constructed this
religion around the fearful folklore of his subje
a tool for societal control. Darkonian tradition
holds that their land originally belonged to the
dead. The living stole this world, banishing the
unliving to the Gray Realm, but someday, in a
prophesied event called the Hour of the Ascen-

 

2

sion, the
vengeful
dead will re-
turn to
reclaim
what is
rightfully
theirs. The
clerics ofthe
Eternal Or-
der worship
a patchwork
pantheon of
death deities
borrowed from
other religions. Worship focuses on performing
countless rituals intended to appease the dead and
continually postpone the Hour of the Ascension.
When the Requiem destroyed Il Aluk, many
Darkonians believed the Ascension had come at
last. In the aftermath, the Eternal Order’s clergy
blamed the Requiem on the weak faith of the
Darkonian people. The Darkonians responded by
abandoning the Order in droves. As an organized
religion, the Eternal Order is rapidly crumbling,
but some clerics — and the underlying supersti-
tions of the Darkonians — remain.

Symbol: A hooded human skull.
Favored Weapon: Seythe.

 

Ezra

The Church of Ezra was born almost ninety
years ago, when a son of the notorious Dilisnya
dynasty claimed that a divine entity, Ezra, Our
Guardian in the Mists, had given him a message to
spread to all the world. According to most tradi-
tions in the church, Ezra was a virtuous mortal
woman who, despairing of the evils of the world,
forever surrendered her mortality to the Mists to
become an eternal guardian of mankind. However,
the fractious sects of the Church of Ezra have been
debating the true nature and teachings of their
ascended patron for decades.

The original, lawful neutral sect, also called
the Home Faith, is centered in Borca. It appoints
Ezra’s faithful clerics, called anchorites, to the task
of protecting and healing her faithful, keeping
them safe from the forces of evil. The lawful good
sect in Mordent also teaches that anchorites must
convert as many souls to Ezra’s flock as possible for
their own good. The mystical, neutral Dementlieu
sect claims that Ezra was a goddess who abandoned
