 

The Lawgiver fell silent during the Grand Che Morninglord

Conjunction. This troubling lapse has opened a
minor schism among the clergy. On one side stand
those who believe the lapse was meaningless or a
test; a minority opposition believes that the Law-
giver was somehow incapacitated. Although the
Church of the Lawgiver ruthlessly purges them, a
handful of heretics even whisper that the Lawgiver
died in the cataclysm, that now all his clerics
worship is a litany of empty titles.

Symbol: A stout iron spear, bound in coils of cult teaches that this strange detail may be a sign
bronze. that even the greatest good may hold some evil
Favored Weapon: Whip. stain, and even the most depraved evil may yet

contain a spark of good.

New Cleric Domains

Mists Domain
Deity: Ezra

a
Lo... OA rh nt)

Deities: The Eternal Order, Osiris

creatures. You can use this spell-like ability once per day.
Repose Domain Spells

Detect Undead: Reveals undead within 60 feet.
Gentle Repose: Preserves one corpse.

Halt Undead: Immobilizes undead for | round/level.

Resurrection: Fully restore dead subject.

Oe nee a a
DONTUAWN—

 

'

The Cult of the Morninglord was born late in
the fifth century, after the faith’s founder claimed
that when he was a young boy, the Morninglord
appeared to him in physical form and protected
him from the roaming menaces of the Barovian
night. Based on this singular encounter, the
Morninglord is usually depicted as a luminous,
sylvan humanoid. Although he is formed of soft,
golden light, his face is smeared with blood. The

Granted Power: Once per day, you may call on the shield of Ezra, a film of luminous mist that envelops
your body for 1 round per cleric level. The form of protection granted is determined by your alignment.
Lawful good: 25/magic damage reduction against metal weapons. Lawful neutral: 15/magic damage
reduction against all physical attacks. Neutral: +10 to all Fortitude and Reflex saves against damaging spells.
Lawful evil: +10 to all Will saves against mind-affecting spells and effects. This is a supernatural ability.

Mists Domain Spells

1 Obscuring Mist: Fog surrounds you

2 Fog Cloud: Fog obscures vision.

3 Gaseous Form: Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly.
4 Solid Fog: Blocks vision and slows movement.

5 Mind Fog: Subjects in fog suffer -10 Wis, Will checks.

6 Wind Walk: You and your allies turn vaporous and travel quickly.
i Greater Teleport: Mists instantly transport you anywhere, with no off-target arrival
8 Vanish: Mists instantly transport a touched object.

y Imprisonment: Traps subject within the Mists.

Repose Domain

Granted Power: You can grant final rest by tracing your deity’
corpse then receives a Will save (using your Will save bonus) to resist any attempt to transform it into an
undead creature, including the animate dead and create undead spells and the create spawn ability of undead

Speak with Dead: Corpse answers one question/two levels.

Raise Dead: Restores life to subject who died up to one day/level ago.
Antilife Shell: 10-foot field hedges out living creatures.

Control Undead: Undead don’t attack you while under your command.
Soul Bind: Traps newly dead soul to prevent resurrection.

‘ini

symbol on a newly dead body. That

ue =

res

 

f
f
?
t

4

7

/
