4 i

Table 2-3: Ravenloft Deities

 

Deity/Faith Alignment Domains Worship Centers
Belenus Neutral good Fire, Good, Sun Shadowlands, Tepest
Eternal Order, The Neutral evil Death, Evil, Knowledge, Repose Darkon

Ezra

Lawful neutral

Mists, Destruction, Healing,
Law, Protection

Northern and western Core

Hala Neutral Healing, Magic, Plant Southern Core
Kali Chaotic evil Destruction, Evil, Healing, Trickery Sri Raji

Lawgiver, The Lawfulevil Death, Evil, Law, War Southeastern Core
Morninglord, The Chaotic good Good, Luck, Protection, Sun Barovia

Osiris Neutral good Good, Protection, Repose, Water Amber Wastes
Ra Lawful good Air, Good, Law, Sun Amber Wastes
Set Lawfulevil Death, Evil, Trickery Amber Wastes
Tvashtri Chaotic good Chaos, Knowledge, Magic, Plant Sri Raji

Wolf God, The Chaotic evil Animal, Strength, Trickery Verbrek

Zhakata Lawfulevil Destruction, Earth, Fire, Protection G'Henna

vals that must be slain or a herd that must be
thinned.

Symbol: A wolf's head. Followers often use
actual wolf skulls.

Favored Weapon: None. Those who cannot
attack with tooth and claw are prey.

Zhakata

The stony wastes of G’Henna are littered with
towering statues of the beast-deity Zhakata, who is
always depicted as a monstrous creature squatting
atop a pile of bones. Zhakata is not worshiped; he
is appeased. The people of G’Henna believe that
Zhakata exists in two aspects: the Devourer and the
Provider. Sadly, G’Henna has experienced only
the Devourer. Zhakata demands endless sacrifice,
usually of food-
stuffs but
occasionally of
living
tures.

   

crea-
The
Devourer is a
deity of cruel
austerity; all
crops must be
donated to the
priests of the
great Temple
of Zhakata,
who deduct
Zhakata’s
share, then dole out the rest back to the starving
populace in meager portions. Buying or selling food
isa religious offense. Obesity is an act of sacrilege.

 

The people of G’Henna continue to make
their painful sacrifices to Zhakata in the desperate
hope that someday they will indeed appease him.
On that legendary day, Zhakata will walk G’Henna
inphysical form and transform himself into Zhakata
the Provider. Generations of G’Hennans have
starved themselves to death in the hopes of some-
day earning the era of plenty that would follow.

In G’Henna, people observe no difference
between civil and religious law. Clerics of Zhakata
eat well, taking the best of the daily dole, and their
word is law. However, all clerics still defer to the
commands ofZhakata’shigh priest, Yagno Petrovna.

Symbol: Small reliquary containing human
finger bones.

Favored Weapon: Flail.

Equipment
hen they joined the struggle

there was something they could not
have known at the time,

thatno blade on earth, no blacksmith's
art

could ever damage their demon opponent.

He had conjured the harm from the cutting edge

of every weapon

— Beowulf, as translated by Seamus Heaney

Ravenloft contains a mix of cultures drawn
from numerous worlds. In some lands where magic
is rare and trade is common, scientific principles
have advanced to offer new inventions.

 

 

 

 
