   

Equipment Descriptions
Firearms in Ravenloft: The Exotic Weapon
Proficiency feat gains a character proficiency with
alllgunpowder weapons. Otherwiceya=4penalty is
assessed on all attack rolls. Firearms can be made
into masterwork weapons or even enchanted like
pny eden ance nvespone:

Most firearms in Ravenloft use wheel-lock
firing mechanisms: pulling the tioper'releases a
spring-wound wheel. This spins against a flint,
which sprays sparks into the priming pan, igniting
the gunpowder. Wheel-lock weapons won't fire if
they become wet. Masterwork firearms tend to use
the safer and more sophisticated snap-lock mecha-
nism: pulling the trigger snaps a flint-headed
hammer against a metal plate, sending sparks into
a covered priming pan. Snap-lock weapons are
generally weatherproof, though complete drench-
ing still fouls the powder.

@eapons

Bayonet: A bayonet is a narrow, daggerlike
blade that can be attached to the end of a musket.
A bayonet attached to a musket is considered a
Medium weapon. If used on its own, a bayonet
makes for an unwieldy dagger, since it lacks a hilt.
A bayonet is a simple melee weapon.

Bomb: This round gunpowder bomb must be

pistol and is an exotic weapon. It does boast an
insidious advantage, however. If the wielder makes

asuc

  

ssful attack with the rapier blade, by simply
pulling the trigger she then can immediately fire
the pistol at the same target as a free action. The
target cannot use her Dexterity bonus to AC against
this follow-up attack.

You can use the Weapon Finesse feat when
attacking with the rapier blade. You suffer a -4
penalty on attack rolls made with the pistol if you
do not have the Exotic Weapon Proficiency (fire-
arms) feat.

Smokebomb: This cylindrical bomb must be
lit before it is thrown. Lighting it is a standard
action. One round after it is lit, this nondamaging
explosive emits a cloud of smoke in a 20-foot radius
that persists in still conditions for 1d3+6 rounds
and in windy conditions for 1d3+1 rounds. Visibil-
ity within the smoke is limited to 2 feet. Everything
within the cloud has 90% concealment.

Any character carrying a bomb who suffers fire
damage must make a DC 13 Reflex save. If the
character fails this save, the bomb’s fuse has acci-
dentally been lit; unless put out, it goes off | round
later.

Straight Razor: A small, finely honed blade
with a folding handle.

  

q *
lit before it is thrown. Lighting the bomb is a} 1
standard action. The explosion deals 2d6 points of 5 2 hy
fire damage. Those caught within the blast radius \ Cable 2~6: Hdventuring Gear 2
can make a DC 20 Reflex save to take halfdamage. { Item CuL Cost. = Weight =?
Any character carryinga bomb whosuffers fire } 800k, blank 5+ 3gp IIb. 4
damage must make a DC 13 Reflex save. If the @ 800k, printed fi lOgp IIb. ?
character fails this save, the bob's fuse has acci- |__ Herbs — 2p ib
dentally been lit; unless put out, itexplodes 1 round 4 Clockworks Cul Cost = Weight
lene. } Automaton, fine q 500 gp 1b. i
Bullets: These large, round, lead bullets are «{ Automaton, diminutive a 1,000 gp 5b. }
sold in bags of ten. The bag has negligible weight. ye o“tomaten. ty . 2,000 gp 10 Ib. :
. Automaton, small % 4,000 gp 50 Ib. e
Musket: The musket holds a single shot and | G
A : {Grandfather clock T 400 gp 80lb. +
requires a standard action to reload. A musket can Mantle clock 8+ 500 5b y
be fitted with a bayonet or, as a last resort, used as Be ack 5 1,000 gp a /

aclub. &

Pistol: This pistol holds a single shot and
requires a standard action to reload. a oe sisi ;
Adventuring Gear

Rapier, Parthian: The curious Parthian (or
Book, Blank: These books are smaller and less

“parting shot”) rapier is considered the bane of

honorable duelists and is usually found as an aristo-
durably bound than a wizard’s sturdy spellbook. A
cyoical Decl mealies 4x 6 icles andiliae one

cratic display piece. Itissimplya rapier with a pistol
hundred pages of parchment. Books of this quality

* No weight worth noting.

Bey

built into the hilt. The Parthian rapier is poorly
balanced compared to either a standard rapier or
