   

are often used for ere meane or ated i

works.

Book, Printed: The emergence of the print-<
ing press has allowed literature to flourish in §

advanced domains. Although print runs are usu-
an one hundred copies —
authors can publish their works for eager audi-
ences. A library in Ravenloft might include manuals
written to teach complex skills or martial tech-
niques, epic tales presented asadventurers’ memoirs,
angst-ridden romance novels or even the renowned
Van. Richten's Guides. At Cultural Levels lower
than 9, books must be scribed by hand and thus
tend to be restricted to vital topics: legal tomes,
historical records or religious texts.

Clockwork, Automaton: The gnomes of
Mayvin, who considered it a challenge to create
the most complex simulation of life from delicate
gears and springs, created the first automatons.
Automatons have since become favored curiosity
pieces among the wealthy. Automatons are typi-
cally capable of only one or two simple movements,
such as crawling forward or tapping a bell. The
largest automatons may be capable of a complex
task such as drawing (preset) picture or signature.
Automatons are spring wound.

                     

 

 

Some adventurers have heard tales of automa-
tons thatcan perform complex, analytical functions,
such as playing chess. Ifnot a hoax, these automa-
tons have been given a semblance of life by their
creators through magic or obsessive desire and
should be considered dexterous but fragile con-
structs.

Clockwork, Clock: The most common ex-
ample of the clockmaker’s craft, these mechanical
devices are capable of keeping accurate track of the
time of day. Masterwork clocks cost twice the listed
price but can include additional features, such as
dials that track the cycles of the sun or moon or tiny
figures that emerge to chime the passing of the
hour. All clocks must be wound at least once a day
to keep accurate time.

 

The smaller and more delicate a clock, the
more time-consuming and costly it is to construct.
(The cottage-sized clockworks within clock towers
break this pattern, of course.)

Herbs: Any relatively common herb, includ-
ing garlic bulbs, tea leaves and sprigs of belladonna.
Some herbs may be difficult to obtain outside
specific conditions of climate and terrain.

 

   

sii

 

 

Le

Cable 2-7: Special Substances and Items

Item Cul Cost Weight
> Gunpowder,keg 8+ += 250gp 201.
Gunpowder,horn 8+ 35qp 2b.

Silvered weapons 4+ x5

 

Special Substances and Items

Gunpowder: While gunpowder burns (with
an ounce consuming itself in | round and illumi-
natingas much asa sunrod) or even explodes in the
right conditions, it is chiefly used to propel a bullet
out of the barrel ofa musket or rifle or is formed into
Stace tereinean dt eee
propel a bullet. Gunpowder is sold in small kegs
(15-pound capacity and 20 pounds total weight)
and in water-resistant powder homs (2-pound ca-
pacity and total weight). If gunpowder becomes
wet, it is rendered useless.

 

If a character fails a Reflex save against a fir
based attack, any gunpowder she is carrying ignites,
dealing 1 point of damage per ounce carried to the
bearer and anything within a 5-foot blast radius.
Everyone (but the bearer) caught within the blast
radius can make a DC 20 Reflex save to take half
damage.

Silvered Weapons: Any metal weapon can be
silvered for five times its listed cost. Apply this
modifier before adding masterwork costs, if appli-

cable.

final Choughts

n the depths of every heart, there is a tomb
and a dungeon, though the lights, the mu-
sic, and revelry above may cause us to
forget their existence, and the buried ones,
or prisoners whom they hide.

— Nathaniel Hawthorne, “The Haunted
Mind”

By following the guidelines in this chapter,
you can create the framework of a player character.
Race, class, skills and feats; these rules are the meat
and bones of a hero, but they remain incomplete.
The heart and soul of your character is her person-
ality, and only you can breathe life into your
creation.

The protagonists of Gothic tales often en-
counter villains or creatures that represent their
own inner demons made manifest. By providing

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
