  
 

 
   

Death by Pitchfork

The minions of darkness have a habit of strik-
ing when heroes are ill prepared to face them. All
too often, heroes may be forced to defend them-
selves with common objects. Furthermore, many
characters that heroes encounter in Ravenloft,
from mobs of irate villagers to thieving goblinfolk,
are more likely to wield such weapons of opportu-
nity than true military arms.

Tool-grade weapons are similar to the mili-
tary-grade weapons listed in the D&D Player's
Handbook. Characters wielding such items suffer a
I penalty on attack and damage rolls, however.
The tools listed below are considered simple weap-
ons. No character can be proficient with an item
that lacks an obvious grip or handle, such as a
wooden plank. Listed below are several tool-grade )

cent

}
\
2
,

Ring WE ed

tans re aa a ape

\ weapons and the military-grade weapons they re- {
| semble.
{Tool Equivalent !
| Axe Battleaxe ;
{ Bottle, broken Dagger
Crowbar Light mace q
\ Flail, grain Light flail
\ Gaff Light pick i
| Hammer Light hammer
Hatchet Handaxe f
{ Hoe" Quarterstaff
| Knife, carving Dagger }
{Machete Scimitar
| Meat cleaver Handaxe /
Pick Heavy pick
) Pitchfork Trident ]
| Poker, fireplace Halfspear
é Scythe Scythe !
Shovel* Quarterstaff a
Sickle Sickle ;
Skillet Club
| Sledge Warhammer

ae

Unlike a quarterstaff, these tools are not double weapons.

your hero with vibrant characterization, you offer
the DM greater opportunities to engage your hero
with adventures tailored to her interests. A wizard
obsessed with acquiring magical power might find
herself on a quest for the spellbooks of a lich; a
barbarian who steadfastly protects his clan from
chittering goblin raiders may eventually assume
the title of chieftain.

 

oe Player Chavacterl == f= ©

   
  

So, as a final exercise, whenever you create a
Ruveniore player charctent plies yourelaiayane
hero’s mind and consider the following questions.
This is not a test, and there are no wrong answers.

1. What do you look like? Are you alluring?
Plain? Grotesque? Do you dress in finery or tattered
rags? Do you have any scars or distinguishing fea-
tures? A character’s appearance may hint at her
past. For example, a fighter hunting the weretiger
who infected her with lycanthropy might still bear
scars from the attack.

 

2. Where is your family? Where is your
homeland? Are you native to Barovia, or were you
drawn into a quest from the arid Amber Wastes?
Do you have a cozy cottage to call home, or have
you been banished from your ancestral estate?
Some players may believe that loved ones can’t be
threatened if they don’t exist, but consider this: a
hero with no one to lose also has no one to turn to
in times of need.

 

3. What is your greatest love? For what or
whom would you make sacrifices? A romantic
interest? A family member? Yourself? Your deity?
Magic? Youth? Knowledge? Power? Would you
make a personal sacrifice or sacrifice someone else?

4. What is your greatest regret? Do you have
any memories that haunt you at night? Were you
unable to prevent a death? Do you havea mental or
physical trait that you despise? Did you betray a
friend in a time of weakness?

5. What makes your skin crawl? What are
your hates or fears? Many elves are disgusted by the
acrid scent of gunpowder, and dwarves are said to
dislike the sea. Do you dislike the smell of live-
stock, ordo you hate the sweltering heat of summer?
Does witnessing an injustice set your teeth to
grinding, or does the sight of spiders send you into
shivers? Do you find a race, culture, religion, or
form of magic primitive or unnatural?

6. What is your greatest shame? Do you
secretly desire fame? Power? Have you harmed
someone in the past to advance yourself? Did you
desert a friend in order to learn something or gain
something you wanted? Do you secretly despise
your brother and wish him harm? Have you com-
mitted some act you think is unforgivable, yet
desire redemption?

7. What fascinates you? What topics draw
your interest? Do you attend operas, or do you read
tawdry novels? Would you rather pore over the
intricate patterns of a magic scroll, the strands of a
cobweb or the gears of a clock tower? Do you have
