   

a weakness for riddles? Do you live your life in
search of new sensations?

8. What are your habits? Do you have any
patterns in your life? A sorcerer might twist his
beard when lost in thought; a caliban might collect
“trophies” from slain foes; a bard might practice
every night to hone her musical skills.

9, What are your secrets? Do you hide any-
thing from the outside world? Are you disguising a
trait, or have you buried an event from your past?
Why do you keep this secret? If your secret was
revealed, would you merely be embarrassed or
might you face persecution or place someone at
risk?

10. Are you rational or passionate? Do you
pride yourself on following your head before your
heart, or are you a true romantic? Characters with
chaotic alignments tend to be more comfortable
with their emotions, but lawful characters are cer-
tainly capable of passionate outbursts.

  

  

11. Are you sophisticated or superstitious?
Were you educated in the finest boarding schools,
or did tanners who left their homestead only to
check their traps raise you? A cosmopolitan char-
acter might be experienced in the skills of etiquette,
while an unrefined peasant might know countless
folktales about the fey.

12. How strong is your faith? Many denizens
of the Land of Mists scoff at religion, believing that

 

the deities have long since ceased to care about
mortal concerns. If religious, do you worship the
prevalent religion of your homeland, or have you
adopted a foreign creed? Are you pious or zealous?

13. How self-confident are you? Do you
continually question your own motives? Do you
struggle with an inner darkness? Or do you stride
boldly forth, knowing in your heart that your
actions are correct?

14. What drives you to adventure? Why have
you taken up the dangerous life of an adventurer?
Are you simply mercenary, seeking treasure? Are
you on a hunt for vengeance? Are you driven by
altruistic motives? Do you believe you have a
destiny to fulfill? Are you trying to reclaim a stolen
birthright? Are you struggling to be reunited with
a lost love?

Answer as many of the questions asked above
as you can and you will find that your character has
developed a vivid background and intensely per-
sonal backstory. These can only enrich your play
and give your DM ideas for building stories around
some of those details. These might incorporate
your family members, dislikes, fascinations and
beliefs or they might help you resolve old fears,
personal demons or an old debt. Whatever comes
of the answers, you know your character far better,
understanding where he came from and what drives
him to adventure in the Land of the Mists.

 
