The case began with a bolt of lightning, smashing glass and a woman's scream — and Alanik insists
that is where it ended.

The morning after the storm, J watched Alanik examine the battered bedchamber of the missing Lady
Thetése. An ashen-faced servant assured us that none of the manor’s staff had dared to alter the room’s
particulars since the alarum of the previous night.

The broken bodv of one Hime. Emmanuelle, reported missing the dav before, now lav in gentle repose
atop the bed, her bloodless arms delicately folded over a small book. A nearbu writing desk produced numerous
sketches ofone Bertrand P__, a local gentleman. His body, also missing, remained unaccounted for. The
glass doors that once opened to Ladu Therése’s balcony now lav in glittering shards upon the floor. ©f Ladv
Therese herself, there was no trace.

Alanik gently pried the book from the dead woman's grasp. As he silently turned its pages, J watched
the familiar intrigue build in his cues. 3 could stand the suspense no longer. “3s it a clue?” 9 asked.

“Fo,” he replied, “a solution.” dt was the diary of the missing Lady Therese. Alanik quicklu divected
me to three entries that would, as he put it, “lay the matter bare.”

Dix Davs Previous

“J fear my heart will burst: Today J learned that Bertrand has asked for Emmanuelle’ s hand in marriage:
‘That comiving witch: What could he see in her? What could she possiblu give him that 3 cannot? J have
loved him for vears — he should be mine: Wet, he onlu has eves for chat emptu little head of hers. J will not
accept this indignity; 3 know of an old hermit who lives outside the town. 2 is wise in the forbidden wavs.
He can call upon forces to right this wrong.”

Two Davs Previous

“The pact is sealed. The old sorcerer [ed me through an incantation that even now winds its wav to my
beloved. That wretched Emmanuelle will die at sunset. Jn his grief, Bertrand will come to me for consolation.
J shall dru his tears, and he will remain by my side forever. This has been promised me.”

One Dau Previous (Final Entry)

“dnjustice: J curse the fates that mock me: Emmanuelle died at dusk, ‘tis true. But Bertrand — mv
Bertrand — was at her side when their carviage turned over in a ditch: Both were crushed: Even as J write
these words, their bodies await a funeral; win graves in Bertrand’s familu plot: The old hermit will pav dearln
for this....

“A messenger has come from town, racing the storm. Hiv hand shakes as J record his news. Bertrand
and Emmanuelle... their bodies have been stolen: Gone: What can this mean?

“1 flash of lightning — a shadow on mu curtains — something on mu bale—”

Thus ended Ladu Therése’s journal. Alanik declared that we must hasten to Bercrand’s family plot.
Once at the gravevard, we found the groundskeeper ina state of consternation. After spending the previous
dav digging graves for the unfortunate Bertrand and Xmmanuelle, he returned today to find both holes
completely filled with earth.

Alanik directed my gaze to two sets of tracks in the rain-soaked soil, leading to the plot. The larger prints
walked with steady, determined paces. The smaller feet appeared to have been dragged, kicking, cveru step
of the wav.

“ou don't suppose,” J asked, my throat quite dru, “that we have found our victim”

“Indeed we have,” he replied, staring at the grave intended for Fmmanuelle. “Wictim and murderess
both.”

—from The Life of Alanik Ray,
by Arthur Sedgwick, physician

 
