 

aceless masters, Dark Powers that subtly

twist reality to suit their grim tastes, rule

the Realm of Dread. This chapter in-
QO} cludes all the rules needed to create the

Gothic atmosphere of Ravenloft, where
courage is pitted against intimate horror, where the
thirst for vengeance carries power, where inno-
cence must resist the temptations of sin, and where
magic does not always do what it is told.

The first section, on Fear, Horror and Mad-
ness, offers three new types of saving throws,
designed to test heroes’ resolve.

 

Next, the Curses section explains how any
character can rail to the heavens in the name of
vengeance — and be heard.

The Powers Checks section details the path of
corruption fated for those who succumb to evil’s
charms.

Finally, a section on Altered Magic presents
the ground rules that all spells and magic items in
Ravenloft must obey.

fear, Horror and Madness

trembled not —I stirred not — for a crowd
of unutterable fancies connected with the air,
the stature, the demeanor, of the figure,
rushing hurriedly through my brain, had para-
lyzed — had chilled me into stone.

— Edgar Allan Poe, “Ligeia”

Ravenloft is a world that mixes adventurous
action with subtle horror: it is a world of Gothic
adventure. Heroes in Ravenloft campaigns may
find themselves facing slavering monsters that can
slay with a touch, haunted by the memory of
horrendous cruelties, or exposed to alien forces
that can wrench their minds apart. The heroes can
prevail — but only if they can face their fears.

 

 

 

Fear, Horror and Madness saves represent the
power of terror —a roleplaying tool to help players
visualize the hysteria that often clouds the minds of
characters in classic tales of horror. The DM can
consider these saving throws optional. If a player
portrays the stark terror ofher hero without prompt-
ing, no die roll is necessary.

Note: Creatures without Intelligence scores
are immune to Fear, Horror and Madness effects.

Making the Saving Chrow

Fear, Horror and Madness saves are consid-
ered Will saves in all respects. Anything that
modifies a Will likewise modifies Fear, Horror

   

and Madness saves; anything that modifies saves
against fear effects modifies Fear saves.

Fear, Horror and Madness saves all use the
same basic mechanic: a Will save against a speci-
fied DC. Specific DCs depend on the situation and
type of check being made and are provided in the
following sections. Luck effects and resistance ef-
fects (such as those generated by a luckstone or a
cloak of resistance) do not affect Fear, Horror and
Madness saves; they are outside the purview of luck
and are not active effects that would be resisted.
Divine effects do aid Fear, Horror and Madness
saves, however.

 

Ifa character succeeds at the Will save, then
there is noeffect, and she is immune to that specific
source of Fear, Horror or Madness for 24 hours.

If a character fails the Will save, then the
margin of failure determines the result. Subtract
the final check result from the DC; this result
determines whether the character suffers a minor,
moderate, or major effect.

Failure Margin Effect

1-5 points Minor

6-10 points Moderate

1115 points Major

16+ points Major, plus additional effect (see

below for specifics)

When determining the results of failed Horror
and Madness saves, the player also needs toroll 1d4
to select a specific effect (see below).

Conditions such as cowering, frightened, pan-
icked, paralyzed, shaken, sickened, and stunned
are described in the Glossary of the D&D Player's
Handbook.

Recovery Checks

A character who fails a Horror or Madness
save needs to make recovery checks to shake off its
effects. Recovery checks are actually just Horror or
Madnesssaves, usually with thesame modifiers and
DC. However, succeeding at a recovery check
removes a Horror effect or lessens the severity of a
Madness effect; failing a recovery check does not
cause additional ill effects. Characters may take 10
on rectvery checks.\See Recovering from Horror
and Recovering from Madness for more details.

fear Saves
A character should make a Fear save when
facingoverwhelmingodds or immediate, dire physi-
cal danger. Fear saves can also be used to test the
