Cable 3-1: Fear Save Modifiers

 

Modifier Condition

+4 Character or ally possesses a weapon, form of magic or bit of lore that has proven tobe useful against
the threat.

#2 Character or ally possesses a weapon, form of magic or bit of lore that is believed to be useful against
the threat,

+4 A loved one is endangered.

#2 A friend or ally is endangered.

+1 An Innocent is endangered.

+1 Character has defeated a similar threat in the past

+ Character is in close quarters (no place to run),

Character has faced and been defeated by a similar threat within the past 24 hours.

zi Character has faced and been defeated by a similar threat in the past (but not within the past day).

ei Character is alone.

st Character has lost more than half of his or her maximum hit points.

 

acter can use special abilities, including spells, to
flee; indeed, she must use such means if they are the
only way to escape.

Major Effect: Panicked. The character suffers
a —2 morale penalty on skill and ability saving
throws and must flee. She drops what she’s holding,
chooses her path randomly (as long as she escapes
from immediate danger), and flees any other dan-
gers that confront her. If cornered, she cowers. A
panicked character may use aspecial ability or spell
to escape.

If the character fails the Fear save by 16+
points, she is panicked and must make an immedi-
ate Horror save (DC = failed Fear save DC - 5).

Additional Failures: Fear effects stack. A
shaken character who fails another Fear save be-
comes frightened. A frightened character who fails
another Fear save becomes panicked.

 

 

Recovering from fear

Fear effects last 5d6 rounds. Certain spell

effects (such as modify memory or remove fear) can
remove all Fear effects.

Rorror Saves

Most Ravenloft campaigns include scenes in
which the heroes witness scenes of terrible cruelty
or behold events that simply should not be. Horror
is a broader emotion than fear, and yet, more
intimate. Horror often permanently colors a
character’s view of the world, be it through the
shock of realizing that such merciless events are

possible or the paralyzing dismay of discovering (

a

See!

f

y _ 2 ye :

iii ici aS cecal i

some monstrous trait within oneself. Horror is the
murderer of innocence.

Possible examples of scenes that might require
a Horror save include seeing someone torn limb
from limb, watching a fiend transform into 4
hideous monster or learning that you slew an
innocent bystander while possessed by an evil
spirit.

Determining the Horror Save DC

Horror saves are typically prompted by un-
usual, unique situations rather than by creatures, so
unlike Fear saves there’s no quick formula to deter-
mine the DC. Instead, the DM should use her best
judgment to apply a DC to the scene. Asa rule, the
more gruesome, abnormal or insane the scene, the
higher the DC should be. A few examples are listed
in Table 3-2.

q
j
* Table 3-2: Horror Save Criggers
oc Horrific Scene
£5 Signs of violence (a drying pool of
‘ blood, a splintered doar and so on)
8 A decaying body
} 10 Ascene of pain or suffering (abeggar
x ravaged by disease; a doctor sewing
‘ wounds shut)
£12 A freshly slain corpse
Ns Ascene of terrible agony (torture,
involuntary transformation)

20 A scene of evil, cruelty and madness
(Finding dismembered bodies that
have been turned into marionettes)

25 Malign paradigm shift (see below)

See ee

¥

 
