Cable 3-3: Horror Save Modifiers

 

Modifier Condition

+4 A loved one is clearly endangered by the threat.

+4 The victim of the threat is a despised foe.

+2 A friend or ally is clearly endangered by the threat.

+2 The victim of the threat is a foe.

+1 An Innocent is clearly endangered by the threat.

-l An Innocent is participating in the scene (but not threatened).

= A friend or ally is participating in the scene (but not threatened).

-4 A loved one is participating in the scene (but not threatened).

-4 Character is inadvertently responsible for the scene.

| Character is of good alignment.

+1 Character is of evil alignment.

= Character is in close quarters (no place to run).

1 Character is in an open area (room to run away).

+2 Character has been warned about what she’s about to witness.

+ Character has overcome or endured a similar event in the past

2 Character has failed a Horror save prompted by a similar scene within the past 24 hours.
aA Character has Failed a Horror save promptedby asimilar scene in the past (but not within the past 24 hours).
-l Character is alone.

-l Character has lost more than half of his or her maximum hit points.

een ny 7

A “malign paradigm shift” is a situation in
which a character discovers that an important
element of the surroundings is not only drastically
wrong, it has been so all along, unbeknownst to the
él ter. Examples include PCs realizing that
they are the only people in a crowded inn who
aren’t evil shapeshifters, or discovering that the
carriers of a plague epidemic are actually all the
victims of rampant vampiric feeding —andare still
under the vampires’ control.

Circumstance modifiers often factor into Hor-
ror saves; examples are listed in Table 3-3. All
modifiers apply to the check and stack with each
other.

The DM has to make judgment calls when

   

 

 

defeat a band of goblins in battle, they do not need
to make Horror saves when examining the slain
bodies. The same is true of monsters for their
victims.

failure Results

A character who fails a Horror save is subject to
aminor, moderate or major Horror effect, depending
on the margin of failure (see above). The player then
rolls 1d4; the DM compares it to the minor, moderate
or major effect category as listed below to select a
specific symptom of Horror. If a character fails a
Horror save by 16+ points, she suffers a major Horror
effect and must make an immediate Madness save

 

 

applying some of these modifiers. For example, ifa ~g

villagersuddenly grabsa hero’s betrothed and starts —

to transform into a werewolf, the DM should apply
a +4 bonus on the hero's roll (loved one threat
ened). On the other hand, if the hero’s betrothed
suddenly starts to transform into a werewolf, the

DM may apply a4 penalty (loved one involved) “S

instead.

Characters typically do not need to make
Horror saves when witnessing the aftereffects of
their own deliberate actions. Asan example, if PCs

 

oye

 

 

(DC = Horror save DC -5).
q ;
1d4 Horror Effect 2
Minor Moderate Major -
1 Aversion Nightmares Fascination
2 Fearstruck Obsession Haunted
3 Frozen Enraged Mental Shock =
4 Nausea Revision “System Shock =
z
Eien sesesanenca ieee
