 

Player Tips: You can speed up Horrorsaves by
rolling thed20 and the d4 at the same time — if you
succeed at the Horror save, you just ignore the d4
roll. Alternatively, if you and the DM agree that a
Horror effect in the category you rolled is particu-
larly suited to the scene, ignore the d4 roll and
simply choose that effect.

DM Tip: When a character fails a Horror
save, make a note of the cause of the failed check,
the failed save’s DC, and the date in yourcampaign’s
calendar (asample note might read: “Rotting body,
Oct. 31, DC 8.”). Horror saves have long-term
results, and this information comes in handy later
for recovery checks.

 

Minor Rorror Gffects

Aversion: The character is frightened. Al-
though the Fear effect has a duration of only 5d6
rounds, for as long as the character suffers from this
Horror effect she is automatically shaken when-
evershe comes within 50 feet of the location where
she failed this Horror save or any identical places.

Fearstruck: The character is panicked. This
Fear effect lasts 5d6 rounds, but the character
suffers no further eff

 

Frozen: The character is momentarily over-
whelmed by the scene before her and can take no
action for 3 rounds. She is considered flat-footed
for the duration.

Nauseated: The sight causes the character to
become physically ill. She cannot attack, cast
spells, concentrate on spells or do anything requir-
ingattention. The only action allowed the character
is a single move per turn, plus free actions (except
for quickened spells). This effect lasts 1d4 + 1
rounds.

Moderate Dorror Effects

Nightmares: For the moment, the character is
merely shaken. This Fear effect lasts 5d6 rounds.
However, the next time the character tries to go to
sleep, the horrific events of this scene play them-
selves out again in her mind, causing the character
to wake with a scream after only 5d6 minutes. The
nightmares return every time she tries to sleep,
preventing rest. For as long as this Horror effect
lasts, the character cannot regain arcane spells, and
each full day without rest incurs a cumulative 1
morale penalty on all attack rolls, saves and skill
and ability checks, to a—4 maximum penalty.

 

 

 

Lack ofsleep also erodes the character’shealth.
Without rest, she cannot regain hit points through
natural healing.

The sleep spell grants dreamless rest, allowing
the character to regain spells and negate accumu-
lated penalties. If the character does not receive a
sleep spell every night, however, the nightmares
begin again.

Elves neither truly sleep nor dream and thus
are immune to this effect; players of elven charac-
ters should reroll the d4 orchoose another moderate
effect instead. As an option, the DM may intro-
duce the “waking dream,” in which the character
sees the events that evoked her horrified reaction
(and her d4 roll) reenact themselves over and over
during her nightly meditations. This waking dream.
has the same effect as the spell major image, requir-
ing an attempt to disbelieve by making a Will
saving throw to overcome the effects.

Obsession: The character is unable to shake
this horrific memory. She continually replays the
events in her mind, mumbles about them under her
breath and tries to bring all conversations back to
this terrible topic.

Her obsessed mind becomes clouded, and she
seldom sleeps. With each day of restless obsession,
she suffers a cumulative —1 morale penalty on
initiative and Listen, Search and Spot checks, toa
maximum penalty of —4.

The character ignores her health while ob-
sessed. She cannot regain hit points through natural
healing, and each full week without rest inflicts 1
point of Constitution damage. Once the character
recovers from obsession, lost Constitution points
return at the rate of | per day. (See Recovering
from Failure, below.)

Enraged: The character's mind isoverwhelmed
by a primitive, mindless fury directed toward the
source of horror. She must drop anything in her
hands that is not a weapon, then rush forward to
attack the object of her hatred in melee. This blind
fury acts as a barbarian’s rage ability, with the
following exceptions: unlike a barbarian, the char-
acter is not in control of her actions. She cannot
retreat from battle and will not stop attacking the
subject of her rage even if it is destroyed. She must
also move toward the subject using the most direct
route, even if this means passing through threat-
ened areas. If anyone — even an ally — tries to
block her path and she cannot move around, she
fights her way through the obstacle.

 
