 

  
  
  
     

The character is enraged a number of rounds
equal to 3 + the character's (heightened) Consti-
tution modifier. The character regains control of
her actions afterward, but she is fatigued in the
same manner as a barbarian once his rage ends (si

 

the D&D Player's Handbook).

Revulsion: Works as aversion, except thatthe
character is shaken if exposed to anything that
merely reminds her of the horror scene. A charac-
terhorrified bya vampire attack may suffer repulsion
upon seeing a large swarm of bats or hearing the
conversational mention ofa vampire, for example.

Major Dorror Gffects

Fascination: The character develops a morbid
fascination with the scene. This obsession be-
comes so overpowering that it warps the character’s
personality. In the fascinated character's mind, the
source of the horror effect becomes increasingly
powerful. The fascinated character may eventually
believe that the source is omnipotent; she may
even revere it. As an example, a character who
becomes fascinated after witnessinga vampire drain-
ing the blood from a victim may seek out that
vampire and offer her servitude. As the fascinated
character warps herself into a willing slave of her
own horror, she suffers a cumulative loss of | point
of Wisdom and Charisma damage each week. If
either score drops below 3, the character becomes
a lost one (see Additional Failures under Madness
Saves).

Once the character recovers from fascination,
the lost Wisdom and Charisma points return at the
rate of 1 each per day.

Haunted: Witnessing the hortific scene shat-
ters the character's ability to see any good in the
world. She suffers the obsession effect and suffers
1d6+1 points of Charisma damage as her spirit
becomes hardened and withdrawn. Once the char-
acter recovers from the haunted effect, lost
Constitution and Charisma points return at the
rate of 1 each per day.

Mental Shock: The character’s mind simply
shuts down, unable to comprehend what it is wit-
nessing. While suffering from mental shock, the
character can take no actions and is considered
flat-footed. She walks if dragged along but cannot
run.

Mental shock lasts 3 rounds. At the end of that
duration, the character must make another Horror
save at the same DC to escape the effects. If she
fails, the effects persist, but she can retry the saving

 

 

————— ee KX,

 
 

‘ (2)
throw once every 3 rounds until she succeeds. If the
horrific scene is no longer present, the character
gains a cumulative +1 morale bonus to each retry
until she succeeds.

System Shock: The shock proves to be too
much for the character’s heart; she must make an
immediate Fortitude save against the same DC
suffer 3d6 points of Constitution damage.

Additional failures

Some Horror effects (such as enraged or men-
tal shock) have outburst durations that can be
measured in rounds, but all Horror effects actually
linger for days. (See Recovering from Horror for
long-term durations.)

 

 

 

A character can carry only a single Horror
effect at a time. If a subsequent failed Horror save
indicates a result of equal or lesser severity, use
another outburst of the existing effect. If a failed
Horror save indicates a result of greater severity,
replace the existing effect with the greater one.
Horror effects do not stack

  

Examples: Radford fails a Horror save, becom-
ing enraged (a moderate effect with a duration of
two weeks). During these two weeks, any addi-
tional failed Horror saves indicating a minor or
moderate effect automatically default to his be-
coming enraged again. If Radford’s player fails a
Horror save indicating a major result, then deter-
mine it as normal. In this case, a d4 roll comes up
with haunted. The enraged effect is then removed,
and haunted becomes the new Horror effect tor-
menting him.

Horror effect durations superimpose; the dura-
tion is measured from the time of the latest failed
Horror save.

Recovering from Horror

Minor Horror effects last one week. Moderate
effects last two weeks. Major effects last thirty days.
At the end of this duration, the character rolls a
recovery check (a Horror save). Use the DC of the
original Horror save with a—2 morale bonus, since
time and distance heal all wounds. If the character
succeeds at this check, the Horror effect is re-
moved. If she fails, the Horror effect persists for
another duration period. A character can retry
failed Horror recovery checks each time she reaches
the end of a duration period. The -2 DC modifier
is cumulative with each attempt.

Example: George makes a DC 18 Hortor save,
with histesulta 14: a failure. Since George failed by
