 

four points (18 — 14 = 4), this results in a minor
effect. After one week, he can make a recovery
check at DC 16 (DC 18-2) to shake off the effects.
If George fails this save, he can try again in another
week at DC 14 (DC 18 - 4), and so on, until he
succeeds.

Numerous spells and magical effects (such as
modify memory or remove fear) can also remove all
Horror effec

Madness Saves

Failed Madness saves can cripple a character;
fortunately, they're also the least common type of
effect. Make a Madness save in the following three
situations:

 

¢ The character makes mental contact (using
spells, special abilities and so on) with any
darklord, aberration, elemental, ooze, out-
sider, plant, or insane mind (any creature
suffering froma Madness effect). Druids and
clerics with the Plant domain are exempt
from making Madness saves when contact-
ing plants.

© The character is the victim of “gaslighting:”
a purposeful attempt by another party to
drive her insane.

The character suffers a total catastrophe.
This can include witnessing the brutal de-
struction of the rest of the party, leaving the
character to face the threat alone; a paladin
being stripped of her powers; suffering an
involuntary alignment change; or being sub-
jected to a horrific physical transformation
(such as being turned into a broken one).

Determining the Madness Save DC

A Madness save’s DC is determined on a case-
by-case basis.

Mental Contact: Ifa Madnesssave isprompted
by contact with an alien or insane mind, the DC is
10 + 1/2 the contacted creature’s HD + contacted
creature’s Wisdom modifier.

Gaslighting: Gaslighting comes in two variet-
ies. If an opponent tries to drive a character mad
witha spell or other magical effect (such as bestow
curse or wish), then default to the saving throw
indicated by that spell (typically a Willsave). That
saving throw stands in for the Madness save.

 

 

One character can also gaslight another
through nonmagical means. To do this, the perpe-
trator must gain the victim’s trust and remain in

 

close proximity to the victim for thirty days, using
that time to slowly convince the victim that her
sanity is slipping away.

At the end of the thirty days, the perpetrator
must make an opposed Bluff check against the
victim’s Sense Motive check. If the victim fails this
check, she has been driven mad; as with other
Madness saves, the degree of failure determines the
result (subtract the victim’s Sense Motive result
from the perpetrator’s Bluff result). The perpetra-
tor can select a specific Madness effect from the
selected category if he wishes.

If the victim’s Sense Motive check defeats the
perpetrator’s Bluff check, she is unaffected. If she
succeeds by 10 or more points, she immediately
becomes aware of the perpetrator’s failed gaslighting
attempt. If the perpetrator is not detected, he can
try again (with each attempt taking another thirty
days)

Total Catastrophe: Madness saves prompted
by personal catastrophes can be considered a par-
ticularly shattering form of Horror save. The DM
should use the recommended DCs and modifiers
listed under Horror saves, though this often re-
quires the DM to make a judgment call.

 

 

failure Results

Failed Madness saves can quickly hinder or
cripple a character. As with Horror saves, the
player should roll 1d4 and compare it to the failure
category (see below) toselect an effect. In addition
to the listed Madness effects below, all failed Mad-
ness checks cause effective ability decreases to
Intelligence, Wisdom and Charisma. (Roll sepa-
rately for each ability score.)

Acharacter with a minor Madness effect takes
1d6 points of damage per ability score. The charac-
ter regains | point in each ability score per hour.

A character with a moderate Madness effect
also takes 1d6 points per ability, but these points
cannot be regained without effort. See Recovering
from Madness below.

A character with a major Madness effect takes
1d10 points of damage per ability score. As with
moderate effects, these points cannot he regained
without effort.

If a character fails a Madness save by 16+
points, her mind is shattered. Unable to function,
she immediately drops to—I hit points and starts to
die. If she survives this shock to the system, she
suffers a major Madness effect and takes 1d12
points per ability score.

 
