¥y

5 Madness Effect
a Minor Moderate Major

x Blackout Delusions Amnesia

<< Denial Depression Multiple Personalities

j Horrified Hallucinations Schizophrenia

: Unhinged Paranoia Suicidal Thoughts >
€ /
eh — ~ _ _

 

 

All Madness effects described below are in
addition to the ability point loses detailed above.
Asanote, minor Madness effects tend to be forgi
ing and pass within a few hours. Moderate effects
can be troubling, but PCs can usually continue to
function. Characters suffering from major Madness
effects often pose adanger to themselvesand others
and require close supervision.

Minor Madness Gffects

Blackout: The character is shaken at first
However, she does not recall anything in the time
between (and including) the scene that prompted
the Madness save and when she regains the last of
her decreased ability scores.

 

 

 

If the character is alone, the DM may simply
cut to when she “comes to,” wandering and alone,
with no memory of how she came to be in her
current location. Some spells, such as modify
memory, can restore lost memories.

Denial: The character’s mind refuses to ac-
cept the existence of the threat that prompted the
Madness save. Until she regains all lost ability
score points, she acts as if this threat simply does
not exist. Denial provides the character with an
effective +4 insight bonus on any Will saves against
that threat’s attacks but otherwise offers no protec-
tion. When all ability scores are regained, the
character once again acknowledges the existence
of the threat (but loses the insight bonus).

Horrified: The character suffers a moderate
Horror effect (determined randomly). This Horror
effect’s duration lasts only until the character re-
gains all lost ability score points, rather than the
usual two weeks.

Unhinged: The portion of the character's mind
that should have gone mad simply shuts down in-
stead. This leaves the character able to function but
affects her personality. She receives an effective +2
morale bonus on all Fear and Horror saves, but her
alignment temporarily changes (roll 1d8 to ran-
domlyselectanewalignment, omitting the character's

 

 

 

original alignment from the options). A DC 20
Sense Motive check can reveal that the Unhinged
character is not quite herself, assuming it isn’t obvi-
ous. The character regains her normal alignment
(but loses the morale bonus) when all lost ability
score points are restored.

An alignment change due to this Madness
effect does not cause an additional Madness check.

 

Moderate Madness Gffects

Delusions: The character believes something
about herself that is simply not true. The nature of
this delusion is usually tied into the event that
provoked the Madness save. Examples might in-
clude a character who believes she has endles:
wealth (paying for services with pebbles she insists
are tubies), believes she transforms into a wolf
under the light of the full moon (and insists she
must be caged), or believes that she is a specific
NPC (“Lam Count Strahd! Bow before me!”). The
character can perform actions only if she can
rationalize them within the context of her delu-
sion. For example, a character who believes she is
actually a vampire would not be willing to expose
herself to sunlight.

 

 

 

 

If a character ever performs an action that
should be impossible within the context of her
delusion (in other words, if the player cannot
immediately provide a rationalization for the ac-
tion), the character must make an immediate DC
15 Horror check.

Depression: The character is overcome by a
deep melancholy, sapping away her will to live and
her interest in the world around her. Such a char-
acter just wants to be left alone; she does not
suggest ideas, give commands or otherwise direct
other characters. In fact, in any given situation, the
character must make a Will save at the same DC as
the failed Madness save to take any action whatso-
ever. If the character fails this Will save, she does
nothing at all, even in dangerous situations. In a
combat situation, she cannot take any actions and
is considered flat-footed.

Even if the character is motivated to act, she
does so listlessly and reluctantly. She can follow
the instructions ofallies, but she suffers an effective
-4 morale penalty on all attack rolls, loses any
Dexterity bonus to AC and on Reflex saves and
cannot take attacks of opportunity. On the other
hand, the character's utter lack of interest in her
surroundings actually provides her with an effec-

 

 
