- —  s

 

 

tive +4 insight bonus on all subsequent Fear, Hor-
ror and Madness save:

Hallucinations: The character perceivessome-
thing in the world that simply does not exist. In a
sense, hallucinations can be considered the exter-
nal companion to the internal delusions effect. As
with delusions, the nature of the hallucination is
usually related to the event that prompted the
failed Madness check.

Examples: A character might believe that she
can see ghosts, that biting insects have infested her
armor or that mind-flayers visit her at night. She
might even occasionally encounter an NPC who
exists only in her mind.

Inasense, a hallucination can be thought of as
a phantasm spell on the level of a major image, but
one where the insane character is both caster and
subject. As with illusions, the DM should present
hallucinatory episodes as real events when they
first manifest. Menacing hallucinations may pro-
voke Fear or Horror saves (DC depends on the
specific scene; see the respective sections on deter-
mining DC). Hallucinations can even attack the
character, though they deal only nonlethal dam-
age, as the character merely believes she is being
harmed.

 

 

Characters have little mental defense against
their own inner demons. Thus, a hallucinating
character suffers a -2 morale penalty on all Fear
and Horror saves provoked by her own visions.

If a character somehow becomes aware that
her hallucinations are just that, she must still
concentrate to convince herself that the visions
are not real. This works just like disbelieving illu-
sions; to dispel a hallucination, the character must
make a Will save at DC (13 + character's Wisdom
modifier). Unlike with illusions, however, the re-
assurances of allies cannot grant a hallucinating
character any bonus on her Will save. An attempt
to disbelieve a hallucination is a standard action
and can be retried each round.

Ifa character successfully disbelieves a hallu-
cination, the episode continues for another 1d4
rounds. That hallucination can no longer provoke
Fear or Horror saves, however, nor can it deal
nonlethal damage.

DM Tips: One way to present hallucinations
is to inform the other players in secret about the
nature of the character’s madness. Later, once
those players know that the episode the DM de-
scribed won’t be real, the DM can present the
episode to the group as a real event, and only the

hallucinating character reacts as ifthe threat is real
— adding to the insane character’s confusion.

The DM can then enhance this “rubber real-
ity” by letting the hallucinating character see areal
threat that mimics a recurring vision. As an ex-
ample, a character who hallucinates about
monstrous wolves might be on watch alone, when
she spots teal pack of dire wolves skulking around
the campsite. The other characters would then
have to guess whether she was merely “crying wolf”
again.

 

Paranoia: The character believes that she
exists at the center of a conspiracy dedicated to her
destruction. No amount of rational argument can
convince her otherwise. Although the character's
madness does not extend to actual hallucinations,
the DM should present all NPCs and conversations
with other characters ina menacing light. The DM
might drop subtle visual clues that other characters
are inhuman, or thread vague, easily misinter-
preted threats into NPC dialogue.

As with hallucinations, the DM may want to
give the other players secret signals that the scene
is not being presented quite as it actually exists, or
the DM may want to focus on the paranoid
character’s interaction with NPCs only when sepa-
rated from other PCs. This avoids the extra work of
explaining what's really happening to the other
players.

The paranoid character must succeed ata Will
save with a DC equal to that of the failed Madness
save to place any trust in other characters. If the
character fails the Will save, she must refuse all
offers of help as being obvious traps.

  

If a paranoid character ever does come upon
actual evidence that she has been betrayed or that
others are conspiring against her, she must make an
immediate Horror save (at DC 12 + character’s
Wisdom modifier).

Major Madness Effects

Amnesia: A much more disabling form of the
blackout effect, amnesia is the result of an affected
mind’s desperate attempt to shield itself from the
memory that provoked the failed Madness save.
Throwing the baby out with the bathwater, the
amnesiac character immediately blocks out all
memory of the maddening event — along with
many of the months or years that came before it.

If a failed Madness save results in an amnesia
effect, the DM should roll d%. Multiply this per-
centage times the character’s total levels (rounding

 
