ones

   

Chapter

down). The character then receives that many
negative levels.

Although an amnesiac character still has ac-
cess to all her skills, she loses all memory of events
since gaining those levels. A character who ai
quires a number of negative levels equal to her
character level regresses to childhood.

Example: A 15th-level fighter fails a Madne:
check, resulting in amnesia. The DM rolls d%,
with a result of 48. The fighter then acquires seven
(15 x 48% = 7.2, rounded down) negative levels.
This character would not remember any events he
has witnessed or any people he has met since
becoming an 8th-level fighter.

  

 

 

 

Restoration spells cannot remove these nega-
tive levels; they are caused by memory loss, not
negative energy.

Multiple Personalities: The character's psyche
makes a desperate attempt to contain the mental
trauma it has suffered by splintering into separate
identities. The character retains a core personality,
10d10 fragments, and 2d10 alter egos.

The core personality is the character's original
persona. It has access to all the character's memo-
ries, skills and abilities.

 

Fragments are partial personas, easily described
in asingle phrase, such as “coin collector,” “sleepy
child,” or “talented dancer.” The player can assign
asingle skill or ability to each fragment. Fragments
can use their one talent if called upon, but they
always ignore anything that is not related to their
subject.

Alter egos are fully formed personalities. Each
alter ego considers itself a distinct individual but
often believes that its race, class or even gender
differs from the core personality. As with delu-
sional characters, these alter egos cannot be
convinced that they are not as real as the core
personality. The player should flesh out the per-
sona of each alter ego:

© Roll 1d6 to determine each alter ego’s ap-

proximate age. 1: Child. 2: Adolescent. 3:
Adult. 4: Middle aged. 5: Old. 6: Venerable.
Roll 1d6 to determine each alter ego’s sup-
posed sex and race. 1: Same sex, same race.
2: Male, same race. 3: Female, same race. 4:
Male, different race. 5: Female, different
race. 6: Same sex, different race.
Most alter egos who believe themselves a
different race still consider themselves hu-

 

ee + 2M2 \,

    
 

co ae

 

manoids, but some alter egos believe they
are giants, fey or even magical beasts.

© Roll d% on Table 4-24 in the D&D Dungeon

Master’s Guide to select a trait as the base of
the alter ego’s personality.

Alter egos have access to all the core
personality’s skills and abilities, but they do not use
them if doing so is out of character for the alter ego.
For example, a wizard’s alter ego that believes itself
to be an ogre distrustful of magic would not cast
spells.

 

The player should keep a numbered list of her
hero's fragments and alter egos for ease of refer-
ence.

Whenevera character suffering from multiple
personalities has to make a Will save, she must also
make an immediate additional Will save equal to
the failed Madness save’s DC or randomly switch
personalities (asa free action). The character should
also make a Will save (DC 15 + character's Wi:
dom modifier) each time she rests. If the character
succeeds at the Will save, she wakes up as the core
personality. If she fails, she switches to a random
persona.

 

The core personality has no conscious memory
of time spent in other personalities, but the charac-
terdoes notacquire negative levels as with amnesia.
Alter egos typically are aware of each otherand can
“leave messages” for each other if they wish. It is
not uncommon for alter egos to dislike each other
or the core personality.

Schizophrenia: The character's personality
suffersa serious collapse. As the character's sense of
self erodes, she can experience drastic and unpre-
dictable personality shifts. Once every week, and
whenever the character makes a Will save of any
kind, she must succeed at a Will save (DC 15 +
character's Wisdom modifier) or have her align-
ment immediately and randomly change. The player
should roll 244 of different colors: one die repre-
sents ethical alignment (1: Lawful. 2: Neutral. 3:
Chaotic. 4: Original alignment); the other repre-
sents moral alignment (1: Good. 2: Neutral. 3: Evil.
4: Original alignment). A character might be a
saint one moment, a monster the next.

An alignment change due to this Madness
effect does not cause an additional Madness check.

Suicidal Thoughts: This is a more serious
form of the depression effect. In addition to all the
effects detailed under depression, the character's
will to live hangs by a thread. If the character fails
any subsequent Fear, Horror or Madness saves, she

 

 
