y
¥
5
}

eames
ee

\st Sorin i nga ipotsiasn

Additional Failures

 
  
  

  

5.

 

must soon (within an hour) attempt to take her
own life. The character makes the suicide attempt
viathe most efficient means at her disposal: leaping
off a high balcony, drinking poisonous chemicals,
hurling herself into a river and so on.

A character can also use a piercing or slashing
melee weapon to deal a coup de grace against
herself. This is also possible with some ranged
weapons, such a: sbows and firearms.

 

crc

    

Che Miser the Better? Cisdom
and Madness Saving Chrows

Usually, a character with a high Wis-
dom receives an advantage to any saving
throws affected by her Wisdom score. In.
Ravenloft, however, this is not always the
case. When saving against Madness, char-
acters add their Wisdom bonus, not to their
roll but to the saving throw's DC.

Why does havinga high Wisdom make
it harder to save against Madness? The an-
swer lies in the fact that a character’s own
Wisdom is directly affected by the event
that triggers the save. Madness effects in- }
volve the perceptions and emotions of the
character, sabotaging the character's ability |)
to make wise decisions or accurate judg-  } 4
ments. Higher Wisdom scores, therefore,

ng tiie ean

*
add to the difficulty rather than making it i
easier to overcome the Madness trigger. $
This is particularly evident in the case
ofMultiple Personalities. Whenacharacter’s )
alter ego rises to the surface, it co-opts the %
characters ability scores, including her Wis- }
dom score. Therefore, any attempt to revert / \

to the character's core personality involves |
overcoming her own “better judgment” (i.e.,
her Wisdom), which sides with the domi-
nant personality.

 

oN

roca : 3
ep Wiloemieee 5 ORE yy Slo, Oct eee O

=

 

  

 
 
   
   

ha

known in Ravenloft as a lost one — a walking
catatonic whose mind was shattered by memories
too horrible to bear. The character becomes an
NPC until she has at least a3 in all mental ability
scores; until then, the character eats and drinks if
fed, walks if led and may occasionally mumble
some gibberish, but otherwise she can take no
meaningful actions.

The DM can shape a lost one’s personality by
looking at which ability score has dropped to 1 or
2. A lost one with minimal Intelligence may seem
like a cheery and friendly fellow, buthe mighthave
absolutely no short-term memory. He is unable to
remember anything about anyone from 1 minute to
the next. A lost one with minimal Wisdom might
have a vibrant memory but would be completely
stymied by any kind of external task, such as
openinga door latch or changing his clothes. A lost
one with minimal Charisma might wander in a
daze, mumbling strange rhymes and is seemingly
unable to register the existence of other creatures.

If any ability score drops to 0, the character
slips into complete catatonia (see Ability Score
Loss in the D&D Dungeon Master's Guide). If all
three ability scores are raised above 0 again, the
character wakes up as a lost one.

Madness and Campaign Style

To gain their full effect, Madness effects
depend heavily on the players’ willingness to
portray various forms of mental damage. This
isn’ta problem ina Ravenloft campaign using
a great deal of personality and character de-
velopment. However, if you prefer simply to
use Ravenloft as a Gothic backdrop for vam-
pire bashing, many Madness effects run the
risk of impairing the fun of the game. If Mad-
ness effects don’t suit your style of play, it’s

 

 

Ifacharacterfailsanother Madnesssave while Madness and Alignment

already suffering a Madness effect, do not roll 1d4
to determine a new effect. The character's mind,
already insane, merely sinks deeper into its existing
dementia. Ability score losses are cumulative with
multiple failed Madness saves, however.

If any of the character’s mental ability scores
ever drop below 3, she becomes what is commonly

2

Some Madness effects can cause a character's
alignment to temporarily change. This is an invol-
untary alignment shift but does not require an
additional Madness save. Some classes require spe-
cific alignments, such as the lawful good paladin.
In these cases, the insane character should be
considered an effective “ex” member of that class

 

best tosimply remove them from the game.Inf
/
this case, failed Madness saves only cause the |
effective ability losses described above. ,
a
iia
