 

 

and may or may not lose class abilitie
ample, an ex-barbarian loses the ability to rage,
-monk retains all abilities.)

 

whereas an e

This loss of class abilities is only temporary;
because the alignment change is involuntary, the
character is not considered to have actually aban-
doned the class. When the Madness effect causing
the alignment change is removed, the charactet’s
original alignment is restored and she can continue
to gain levels in that class as normal. Divine
spellcasters such as the cleric, druid or paladin may
be required to atone first, however

Recovering from Madness

The road from madness to sanity is often long
and difficult. Madness effects are removed when all
ability points lost to the failed Madness save are
regained. In the case of minor Madness effects, this
period is mercifully short: never longer than 6
hours. Moderate and major effects require much
more effort to shake off. Several methods are avail-
able to characters in need of recovery:

Peace and Quiet: If the character rests for
thirty days without failing any subsequent Will
saves, she can make a recovery check (a Madness
save) against the same DC. If this check succeeds,

 

she regains 1 point in one of her decreased ability
scores. While the player can choose which ability
score to place the point in, the fastest road to
recovery lies in restoring Wisdom to normal first

The character can attempt a new recovery
check once per restful month against the original
DC until Intelligence, Wisdom and Charisma re-
turn to normal. However, particularly if the
character's Wisdom score was drastically lowered
by the Madness save, the DC may be so high that

 

the character cannot succeed. In these cases, the
character needs to turn to outside help.

Magic: If available, magic is the quickest and
most efficient method of recovery. Restoration can
restore decreased ability scores but requires three

 

castings to remove a Madness effect (one casting to
restore each ability score), while the spells greater
restoration and heal can each cure madness at a
stroke. Note that of these spells, only heal can
restore memories lost to a blackout or amnesia.
Modify memory can also restore lost memories, but

  

it may require multiple castings to recover all lost
memories.

Hypnosis: If the character does not have
access to magic, acces ster with the
Hypnosis skill is the next best option. The hypno-

 

  

to a chara

 

 
