 

 

 

The hypnotist can sense the subject’s emotions through magical means (including hypnotism).
The therapy takes places in a setting where the subject feels safe and comfortable
The hypnotist has the same alignment as the subject (disregarding Madness-induced alignment

The hypnotist comes from a similar background as the subject (including homeland, social class, and

<
: Table 3-4: Hypnosis Cherapy Modifiers
5 Modifier Condition
+ +2
a al
+
change).

+1

é character class).

 

tism spell can be used in the same way; use this
system, but the spell’s increased efficiency grants
the subject a +2 bonus on her recovery check.

Hypnosis is a new technique, first developed
by (and still largely limited to) the alienists, or
doctors, working in Ravenloft’s handful of asylums
and sanitariums. Were magic more plentiful in
Ravenloft, this skill would be even less known —
it is primarily a nonmagical substitute for the
hypnotism spell.

When a character is curing madness, the DC
of a Hypnosis check is equal to the DC of the
subject’s failed Madness save. The hypnotist may
benefit from the modifiers listed on Table 3-4. If
the hypnotist has at least 5 ranks in Heal, he gains
a +2 synergy bonus on the skill check.

The hypnotist can retry Hypnosis checks once
per week (per subject) until the subject recovers.
This means that the aid of a successful hypnotist
can give the insane character four chances to make
recovery checks each month, rather than just one.
A character cannot use Hypnosis on himself.

A successful Hypnosis check garners two re-
sults. First, the subject can attempt an immediate
recovery check to regain a single ability point, as
detailed under Peace and Quiet above. Second,
each successful use of Hypnosis reduces the DC of
the recovery check by 1 point.

Example: A villager has failed a DC 24 Mad-
ness save. Sadly, the villager’s total bonus on his
Will save is only +2; it was +3, but he lost 2 points
of Wisdom when he failed the original Madness
save. Even ifhe rolls a 20 on his recovery check, the
best he can do is a 22; without help, he never
recovers from his madness.

Fortunately, theskilled hypnotist Dr. Heinfroth
takes the villager under his wing. In their first
treatment session, the doctor makes a DC 24 Hyp-
nosis check. With his total bonuses, he rolls a result
of 26; a success. The villager’s future recovery
checks are now only DC 23. The villager still can’t

 

 

 

 

make that, but another successful hypnosis session
the next week would reduce the DC to 22, and so
on — and the villager’s chances for recovery start
to grow.

Sanitariums: A few sanitariums are scattered
across Ravenloft. While their purpose is to lift the
affliction of derangement, more often they simply
serve as prisons for the insane. Recovery in a
sanitarium works just like hypnosis (in fact, that’s
the typical method of recovery used), but the sad
truth is that a patient in a sanitarium is unlikely to
receive the careful attention she requires. Each
sanitarium offersa flat 1d8-5 morale modifier to all
recovery checks made in its care. As the modifier
indicates, many patients in Ravenloft’s sanitari-
ums would be better off locked in their nephews’
attics.

 

Patients in a sanitarium can make one recoy-
ery check per month, using the modifier above.
Each success restores 1 point in one decreased
ability score (player’s choice) and reduces the DC
of future recovery checks by 1 point. This bonus is
cumulative.

Curses

owards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but

unconquering whale; to the last I grapple

with thee; from hell’s heart I stab at thee;

O for hate’s sake I spit my last breath at thee.”

—Herman Melville, Moby Dick

The thirst for vengeance carries its own ter-

rible power. When an injustice is committed, the

Dark Powers hear the cries of the wronged. If their

need for justice is great enough — and if their

hatred burns hotly enough — the Dark Powers may

respond. Curses carry the cruel and poetic justice of

Ravenloft, but they are also evil and begotten of
evil.

 

This section provides guidelines for laying
curses and judging their severity and effects.

‘

Agen’ re
\ WY Yew

|

‘
