     

Types of Curses

Curses in Ravenloft fall into three basic groups.
Adventures are most familiar with the type of
curses created by spellcasters — such as a cleric
casting bestow curse. In Ravenloft, however, any
character can lay a curse; granted by the Dark
Powers and fueled by the hatred of the wronged
party, these are known as curses of vengeance.
Lastly, there are those who willingly or unwittingly
draw the forces of wrath down on themselves; these
are self-induced curses.

Curses of Vengeance

Curses of vengeance are common in Gothic
tales. A curse of vengeance is brought into being
when a character believes herself to be wronged
and, in her outrage, wishes damnation upon the
offender. Even the humblest peasant can call on
terrifyingly powerful forces. Examples might in-
clude the following:

© The lord of an estate sets his hounds on a
young Vistani boy caught poaching. The
slain boy’s mother promises that the lord
also loses his firstborn. When the man later
sires a child, it is born a murderous spirit
naga.

A hedge wizard is falsely accused of murder-
ing children and burned as a witch. Even as
the flames lick at her feet, she swears to one
day return and destroy the village that
wronged her.

Laying a curse of vengeance requires a curse
check (see Laying the Curse below). A curse of
vengeance does not grant the target a saving throw,
nor can spell resistance protect against it.

Magical Curses

Magical curses are those spellcasters create
through effects such as bestow curse or geas. The
advantage of curses empowered by magic is that
they bypass the curse check, automatically taking
effect. However, since they are magical, the victim
does receive a saving throw (as listed under the
spell description), and spell resistance does apply.

Virtually any spell effect with lasting, delete-
tious effects can appear in Ravenloft’s folklore as a
curse. Curselike spells such as insanity, baleful poly-
morph and unhallow appear in many cautionary
tales. However, casting these spells does not incur
the curse rules used in this section (although curses
of vengeance may mirror their effects).

Self-Induced Curses

In some cases, a curse’s invoker and its victim
are the same person. Driven by inner lusts or
obsessions, a character summons the attention of
malign forces, voluntarily drawing damnation down
upon herself. The most notorious example of a self-
induced curse is the tale of Strahd von Zarovich, as
told in the Tome of Strahd. Desperate to regain
what he saw asa wasted youth and steal his younger
brother Sergei’s fiancée for himself, Strahd made a
pact with death and willingly murdered Sergei to
seal the bargain. Strahd was granted the youth he
desired — the eternal and hollow youth of a vam-
pire — and cursed to be forever haunted by the
woman he betrayed.

In Ravenloft, these self-induced curses are
enforced by the Dark Powers and are called powers
checks, which are detailed in the nextsection. Any
character who desires the dark gifts of corruption
can willingly fail a powers check, proving her
sincerity by performing an Act of Ultimate Dark-
ness.

Crafting the Curse

The first and most important step of invoking
any curse is the creation of the curse itself. Every
curse is unique and capable of producing nearly any
result. The more atmospheric the curse, the better
chance it has of gaining the ear of the Dark Powers.

@ording

Let us return to the example of the falsely
accused witch. It’s not very gripping if her dying
words are a trite, “Mark my words, I will be back!
And when I return, you will all be sorry!” To make
matters worse, the vague curse fails to explain how
it will take effect. But consider if that same accused
witch settled into an unnatural calm once the fire
was lit, staring intensely at each face in the jeering
crowd, then delivered this speech as the flames
consumed her:

“You would burn me in the name ofsevenslain
babes. The blood of your children is not on my
hands — but it will be! Seven children from each
generation shall | claim! Seven children times
seven winters! And once I have claimed my due, I
shall be born again — as one of you! As one of your
own children, I shall bring ruin to you all!”

This version of the curse is much more impres-
sive. Not only is the hatred and resolve of the
character invoking the curse made clear, the curse
