    

ment. A far more insidious and effective curse allows
the accursed to retain her abilities but makes her
suffer whenever she uses them. A better curse for the
wizard would be to suffer blinding headaches that
strike whenever she casts a spell, dealing 1 point of
nonlethal damage per spell level. Curses that warp,
rather than destroy, a character’s abilities have a
better chance of taking effect.

 

Crime and Punishment

Curses should be tailored to reflect the offense
that provoked them. The most effective curses
remind the offender of her transgressions every
time they manifest. Our examples of the accused
witch and the aggrieved Vistana both provide
curses that fit the crime, as does the tale of Strahd
yon Zarovich.

Further examples of tailored curses include a
brutal thug who commits murder ina fit of rage and
is then cursed to transform into a werebeast when-
ever the rage returns; an opera diva who poisons a
rival singer, but then discovers that her singing
voice has become shrilly inhuman; or a cowardly
soldier who abandons his allies before a battle, and
is then cursed to flee forever, suffering nightmares
if he sleeps in the same place twice.

Constant or Criggered Effects

Curses generally manifest either constant or
triggered effects. A constant effect continually
plagues the character, with no respite. These ef-
fects can include such drastic changes as being
polymorphed into another type of creature, perma-
nent blindness or the curse of undeath. Usually,
however, they are much more mild; a severe curse
with constant effects may be considered to have
“broad prohibitions” and thus has less chance of
taking effect.

A triggered effect manifests only under certain
conditions, or when the accursed character per-
forms specific actions. An afflicted lycanthrope,
forced to transform into a ravenous beast in the
light of the full moon, is a classic example of a
triggered curse. Further examples might include a
rogue who stutters whenever she lies or a young
heir whose alignment gradually shifts to evil if she
ever returns to her ancestral estate. The example of
the aggrieved Vistana offers another triggered curse:
If the manor lord never fathers a son, the curse
never manifests. If the afflicted character can avoid
the conditions that trigger her curse, she can lead
a normal existence.

  

 

  

Every curse should contain an escape clause —
a means by which the accursed character can free
herself from the effects of the curse. In Ravenloft,
magic cannot permanently dispel curses, so the in-
clusion of an escape clause is vital. In the case of
lethal curses such as undeath, removing the curse
may result in the death of the accursed, but even this
isa form of release. Most of the time, though, a curse
should offer a more substantial chance of escape.

Escape clauses take one of two forms, avoid-
ance or redemption. Avoidance clauses allow the
accursed to stop the curse from manifesting by
avoiding the conditions that trigger it. A fighter
cursed to lose her strength whenever she wields a
sword might switch to another weapon, for ex-
ample. All curses with triggered effects include an
avoidance clause by their very nature.

Redemption clauses offer a way for the ac-
cursed to permanently break the curse. A character
might be cursed to never see her home again until
she has come to the aid of seven Vistani; when she
completes those seven good deeds, the curse is
lifted. Consider the curse of the accused witch one
more time: her curse predicts that seven of the
villagers’ children will die each winter for seven
years, after which the invoker will return to destroy
the village. If the villagers —or the heroes they call
on for help —can disrupt the pattern of deaths, the
curse may be broken. If forty-nine children have
not died within seven years, the wrathful spirit
moves on to its final rest.

Severity

Once the DM approves or creates the curse,
she must judge how powerfully the curse would
affect the victim’s life. The DM should apply a
severity level to each curse, using the guidelines
below. Curse severity is divided into five ranks:
embarrassing, frustrating, troublesome, dangerous
and lethal. A sixth rank is reserved solely for those
curses that bind darklords to their domains and is
detailed under Powers Checks.

Embarrassing Curses

These are the least powerful of curses, used to
repay relatively harmless transgressions. They can
deal only minor physical or behavioral changes.
The accursed character suffers a +1 modifier to her
Outcast Rating whenever the effects of her curse
are apparent, but curses of this severity cannot
manifest any more serious game effects. A well-
