 

known example of an embarrassing curse is the
Vistani penchant for staining thieves’ hands black.

Examples

« Byes turn a strange color or glow like embers

+ Minor spasms — facial tic or twitching fingers

+ Hair turns stark white or falls out

“ Open sores or skin blemishes

+ Forked tongue

- Hands turn black or grow an extra finger

+ Gains a strange habit — bays at the moon, growls when

angry, always shreds

something

- Voice stutters or hisses

Hungers for raw meat, bones, or blood

frustrating Curses

These curses can interfere with the accursed
character's everyday life. They are usually invoked
to repay relatively moderate offenses. Frustrating
curses can create minor game effects, such as drain-
ing Strength. The accursed character suffers a +2
modifier to her Outcast Rating when the effects of
her curse are apparent.

Examples

+ =2 to an ability score

+ =1on attack rolls or a saving throw

+ Minor Fear, Horror or Madness effect

+ Colorblindness

+ Significant physical change: face becomes bestial, fur or
scales, hunchback, short tail, grow or shrink up to I foot, and
soon

+ Voice sounds inhuman

+ Must eat a strange substance once a day: raw meat, blood,
gold, soil, and so on

Troublesome Curses

A curse of this severity dramatically alters the
accursed character's lifestyle, though it cannot place
the victim in mortal danger. Such curses can create
major physical changes or even alter the personality
of the accursed. Troublesome curses are usually in-
voked only to punish major offenses, where the
offender has caused serious physical harm. The ac-
cursed character suffers a +4 modifier to her Outcast
Rating when the effects of her curse are apparent.

Examples

+ —4 to an ability score or —2 to two ability scores

+ =2 on attack rolls or a saving throw

« Moderate Fear, Horror or Madness effect
Deafness

- Haunted by a victim’s ghost

+ Major physical change: vestigial wings, hands become spin-
dly and clawed or resemble paws, change sex, Face becomes
monstrous

+ Personality change: gain an uncontrollable lust for an object
the curse prevents you from obtaining, or ethical alignment
change

Dangerous Curses

Thesecursesdrasticallyalterthe accursed character's
lifestyleandcan imposemajorphysicalormentalchanges.
Fortunately, dangerous cursesare typically invoked only
to repay the most serious of offenses, such as murder or
torture. A curse of this severity can often make the
accursed character appear monstrous; she suffers a +6
modifier to her Outcast Rating when the effects of her
curse are apparent.

Examples

+ 6 to an ability score or —2 to three ability scores

+ —3 on attack rolls or a saving throw

- Blindness

+ Major Fear, Horror or Madness effect

- Afflicted lycanthropy

-Can eat only astrange substance: raw flesh, blood, bones and
soon

+ Moral alignment change when presented with objects of
desire

+ Polymorphed into an animal: toad, snake, hawk and so on

+ Stalked by a monster

- Rise as an undead creature after death

Lethal Curses

Lethal curses are invoked only to punish the
vilest of offenses and can shatter the afflicted
character’s way of life—or even cause her death.
The invoker can lay a lethal curse only in a mo-
ment of intense emotion, usually grief or rage. The
recipient of a lethal curse has often proven that she
is beyond redemption. One of the most infamous
examples of a lethal curse is the Vistani mishamel,
which causes the victim to literally melt. Lethal
curses can create immediate, drastic physical and
mental changes. The accursed character suffers a
+8 modifier to her Outcast Rating when the effects
of her curse are apparent.

Examples

+8 toanability score, —4 totwo ability scores, or —2to four

ability scores

+ —4 onattack rolls or a saving throw

+ Torturous death

- Immediate, permanent transformation into a monster: hag,

undead, construct and so on

- Permanent alignment change

+ Must kill once a day or suffer cumulative penalties
