   

Laying the Curse

Once the curse is created, the DM needs to
determine whether it takes effect. All curses must
be delivered in some demonstrable way — curses
gain their strength from the emotion invested by
the invoker. In most cases, the invoker speaks (or
shrieks) the curse, loudly and clearly. However,
curses are not sonic-based attacks; the target does
not need to hear the curse for it to take effect, nor
can silence spells prevent a curse from being laid. It
is also possible to invoke curses through physical
acts, such as inscribing words of warning on a tomb
or pouring one’s hatred into a cursed magic item.

Magical curses are resolved like any other
spell. Curses of vengeance are resolved through a
“curse check:” a Charisma check modified by the
situation. For the DM, the first steps of a curse
check are to judge the curse’s justification and the
drama of the scene.

Justification

Justification is a measure of the Dark Powers’
justice, weighing whether the target of the curse
deserves to become its victim. It measures the
severity of the offender’s transgression against the
invoker’s need and desire for vengeance. The more
justified a curse, the better chance it has of taking
effect.

Note that justification is measured from the
invoker’s point of view — whether she believes she
has been wronged is more important than the
truth. A band of heroes may well be entirely justi-
fied in storming a villain’s lair and striking her
down to stop some gruesome sacrifice. If that vil-
lain saw herself as having been terribly wronged —
perhaps the sacrifices are preserving the life of a
loved one — then her dying curse could still be
highly justified.

In game terms, justification falls into three
categories:

Unjustified: These curses are baseless; the
target of the curse does not deserve to be punished,
and the invoker knows it. A character who tries to
abuse the power of curses by flinging them at every
foe she encounters may soon find all her curses
falling into this category. Curses can also be con-
sidered unjustified if the invoker tries to punish a
minor transgression with a curse of too high s

ity.

 

ver

Justified: These curses are generally fair. The
invoker has been wronged, the target does deserve

 

some punishment, and the severity of the curse isa
good match for the severity of the transgression.
Curses that would otherwise be highly justified can
slip to this category if the punishment is too severe.
The accused witch is a good example: she has been
terribly wronged, and the villagers do deserve her
wrath. Yet, her curse is too monstrous and harms
the guilty parties through their innocent children.

Highly Justified: These curses are invoked to
repay terrible transgressions. The invoker must
have suffered a terrible wrong, and the target must
truly deserve to be punished for the crime. For a
curse to be highly justified, the offender usually
needs to have performed an act worthy of a powers
check. The grieving Vistana is an example of a
highly justified curse — the manor lord has killed
the invoker’s son, and he is unlikely to receive
justice through any other means.

 

s that enhance the drama of the scene
are more powerful than those that add nothing to
the game’s atmosphere. Calmly tossing off a curse
as though making a quip about the weather carries
very low drama. Meanwhile, a curse delivered in a
hysterical display of grief, with the invoker tearing
at her hair and weeping uncontrollably, would
probably be considered high drama, as would any
curse delivered so powerfully that the players all
pause from the game for a moment to soak it in.

Of special note are curses delivered as the
invoker’s dying words. If the invoker uses her final
breath to spit her outrage and hatred at the target
of the curse, the curse has a better chance of taking
effect. The invoker always dies immediately after
delivering such a curse, however, even if she might
otherwise have been saved. Some sages believe
that the invoker somehow channels her life force
into the curse itself, adding to its strength. It is
known that people who die with a curse on their
lips cannot be raised until their dying curse has run
its course.

Making the Curse Check

Whenone NPC cursesanother, the DM should
usually decide whether the curse takes effect based
onone simple question: does it add to the story? An
evocative curse that enhances the drama of ascene
should take effect, while a lackluster curse should
not.

 

If a player character is involved, either as the
invoker or the target of acurse, curses of vengeance
