 

desire: power, riches, even love. The gifts of Evil
are poisoned fruits, however, tainted by the very
acts undertaken to claim them. Each gift we accept,
each moral shortcut we take, leads us further from
the light and one step closer to Evil's final reward:
our own destruction.

Unseen by mortals, the Dark Powers sit in
judgment of all that occurs within their realm and
silently watch countless other worlds as well.
Whenever a mortal performs an evil act in
Ravenloft, there is a chance that the Dark Powers
respond, both rewarding and punishing the trans-
gressor ina single stroke; this is resolved through a
powers check. If a character continues down the
path of corruption, the Dark Powers may eventu-
ally grant the transgressor her own domain.

Mortals may never know what the Dark Pow-
ershope toachieve with theirsinister gifts. Perhaps
the Dark Powers act as caring but overly harsh
parents, cursing transgressors to frighten them back
onto the path of righteousness, or perhaps the Dark
Powers seek to inflame mortals’ sins, alternately
taunting and teasing the morally weak into infinite
spirals of doom.

Making the Powers Check

Aswith curses, the DM should decide whether
NPCswho perform evil acts fail their powers checks
based simply on whether failure would enhance or
detract from the drama of the game.

Whenever a player character willingly per-
formsan evil act, the DM should resolve the powers
check by making a percentile roll. Mortals have no
control over the whims of the Dark Powers; no
magic or special ability can ever modify this dice
roll.

  

The DM should find the character's transgres-
sion on Table 3-6 to determine the chance of
failure. If the DM rolls this number or less on the
9%, the offending character fails the powers check
and moves one stage down the path of corruption.
If the DM rolls higher than the listed number, the
character succeeds at the powers check; the act has
fallen beneath the Dark Powers’ concern — this
time.

The DM can raise or lower the chance of
failinga powers check, depending on the character’s
motivation. If a character performs an evil act for
particularly vile reasons, the chance of failure might
rise by as much as half. If a character performs a
transgression for altruistic purposes — such as

 

casting a necromantic spell to save a life of an ally
—the DM may reduce the chance of failure by half.

Ifacharacter performs an evil act that does not
appear on Table 3-6, the DM can use the listed
transgressions to estimate the chance of failure.
Only truly despicable acts should have a chance of
failureas high as 10%. Some deeds are so monstrous
that they cannot help but attract the attention of
the Dark Powers. Anyone who commits one of
these Acts of Ultimate Darkness automatically
fails the accompanying powers check.

 

Powers checks are intended to enhance the
game, to divert the attention of a hoary host of
potent unknowns to the actions of the PCs. Use
them wisely and where they serve the game. If
overused, powers checks can slow the game to a
crawl, asthe DM meticulously rolls dice every time
someone swats a fly or coughs in the vague direc
tion of an old woman. Use the guidelines below to
determine when you should incorporate them into
the game.

Crimes or Acts of Violence

These transgressions directly cause others to
come to harm. To determine the chance of failure,
compare the transgression to the alignment of the
victim on Table 3-6. An Innocent is any character
with the Innocence special quality. (See sidebar,
below.)

Assault, Unprovoked: Violent crimes in
which the offender has no intention to kill the
victim or cause lasting harm. These attacks are
often the result of bigotry, bullying or petty cruelty.
Common examples include muggings, picking a
drunken brawl or striking a child in anger.

Assault, Grievous: An attack in which the
offender intentionally causes lasting harm to the
victim. The offender typically has no concern for
the victim's life. Common examples include vi-
cious beatings and attempted murder.

Betrayal, Major: Betrayals include the break-
ing of trust or of a promise. Breaking a holy vow,
however, is considered an unholy act and is de-
tailed below. To be considered a major betrayal,
the act must result in lasting harm or death to the
betrayed victim. Examples can include a traitorous
guard selling the defense plans of his master to
assassins or a merchant reneging on a major con-
tract, bankrupting his business partner's family.

Betrayal, Minor: A minor betrayal results in
minor but lasting effects for the betrayed party

 

 
