   

Common examples include breaking up a happy
marriage or acts of public humiliation.

Extortion: Extortion is the criminal act of
using the threat of violence to coerce others into
giving you something that rightfully belongs to
them or obeying your commands. Common ex-
amples include blackmail, armed robbery and taking
hostages.

Lying: Lying includes telling falsehoods and
purposefully withholding truths. The Dark Powers
hear every word spoken within their realm, but
harmless white lies and tall tales are beneath their
concern. To warrant a powers check, the lie must
directly result in the hearer coming to harm. Ex-
amples might include declining to warn a friend
that her drink is poisoned or tricking a herdsman
into entering the lair of a fearsome beast to search
for his lost sheep.

Murder, Brutal: Brutal murder is the act of
deliberately taking a person’s life through painful
and sadistic means. Examples might include Vlad
Drakov’s method of impaling victims on long stakes,
or a creature that tries to keep its prey alive for as
longas possible while feasting on it. Brutal murders
that involve particularly extended suffering may
also count as torture.

Murder, Nonbrutal: Nonbrutal murder does
not include extended suffering — the killer just
wants the victim dead. The murder must still be
premeditated; killing in self-defense does not war-
rant a powers check. Vengeance and personal gain
are common motives for this brand of murder.

Theft, Grave Robbing: Raiding crypts and
looting corpses defiles the sanctity of the dead.
Grave robbing includes violating ancient tombs,
unearthing coffins to steal corpses and looting the
bodies of the fallen. In cultures where the tombs of
dead are particularly revered, grave robbing may be
considered an act of desecration (see below).

Theft, Major: Theft is the act of taking any
item that rightfully belongs to someone else.
Whether the theft is major or minor depends on its
effect on the victim, not the stolen item’s value in
gold pieces. Any theft that results in serious hard-
ship forthe victim countsasa major theft. Common
examples include stealing the meager savings of a
peasant family and taking a magic item that the
victim needs to keep a curse in check.

Theft, Minor: Any theft that causes the vic-
tim little more than passing aggravation is
considered minor. Common examples include steal-

 

 

ing an apple from a successful fruit stand or silver-
ware from an aristocrat’s pantry.

Threats of Violence: Intimidation in itself
causes little harm and is often beneath the concern
of the Dark Powers. To warrant a powers check, the
offender must have both the means and intent to
follow through with her threats, and the victim
must honestly fear for her safety.

Torture, Routine: Routine torture is the act
of dealing pain to extract information. This is an
evil act even when performed toward an ultimate
good. Many so-called heroes have been seduced
into evil through the misconception that the ends
justify the means. Common examples include tor-
turing an enemy to learn the location of her
headquarters, battle plans or even the location of
hostages.

Torture, Sadistic: Sadistic torture is the act of
causing intense suffering to derive pleasure. Those
who engage in such foul deeds soon draw the
attention of the Dark Powers.

Anboly Hets

Unholy acts are transgressions against a reli-
gious code — a particularly serious act for divine
spellcasters.

As with acts of violence, a character must
knowingly violate a religious code to warrant a
powers check. A character who has no reasonable
way to know of the existence of a religious tenet
should not be punished for failing to obey it.

  

  

To determine the chance of failure, compare
the transgression on Table 3-6 to the core align-
ment of the violated faith. Violating the religious
codes of one’s own faith, regardless of its align-
ment, is a particularly serious offense.

Breaking a Tenet: All religions have certain
practices that their faithful are expected to follow.
As an example, followers of the Morninglord are
expected to sing a short hymn of thanks each
morning. Willingly violating one of these rules is
considered breaking a tenet.

Breaking an Oath: Some religions require
followers, particularly their clergy, to swear oaths
demonstrating their devotion. The clerics of
Zhakata, for example, must swear to obey the
commands of their high priest at all times, while
clerics of Osiris are sworn to protect the sanctity of
the dead. Willingly violating such an oath war-
rants a powers check.

Breaking a Vow: The clergy of some religions
are required to sweat lifelong vows in the name of

 

  
