 

their deity. For example, the priestesses of Belenus
in the Shadowlands are considered to be spiritually
wed to their deity and thus must tak
chastity. A character who breaks a holy vow must
make a powers check, and her religion may enforce

vows of

 

additional penalties.

Defilement: Defilement is the act of causing a
sacred place, object or person to lose its holy
blessings. Deeds might include fouling holy water,
breaking into a sealed tomb and even purposefully
robbing someone of her Innocence

Desecration: Desecration is a more serious
form of defilement. Rather than merely causing a
sacred object to lose its blessing, desecration actu-
ally renders the object unclean in the eyes of its
god. Examples include performing a bloody sacri-
fice on the altar of a good-aligned deity or casting
the desecrate spell

 

Supernatural Evil
Powers checks can also he incurred through
trafficking with unholy supernatural forces. With
these acts, the chance of failure is determined not
by the alignment of the victim, but by the power of
the occult forces the transgressor calls. Unlike
unholy acts, the transgressor does not need to know

 

that a form of magic is considered profane to
warrant a powers check.

Layinga Curse: See Making the Curse Check
above. The curse’s severity determines the chance
of failure.

  

Casting an Evil or Necromantic Spell: Some
spells call on forces that mortals were not meant to
wield. The Altered Magic section later in this
chapter details which forms of magic require pow-
ers checks. The chance of failure is equal to the
effective spell level of the spell being cast. Note
that some special abilities, such as the Empower
Spell feat, can alter a spell’s effective level. Ifa spell
has both the evil and necromancy descriptors, the
chance of failure is doubled.

Using an Evil Magic Item: Some magic items
have one or more special abilities that mirror the
effects of spells that incur a powers check. Using
sucha special ability incurs a powers check as if the
user had cast the spell. For example, whenever a
character uses a sword of life stealing to bestow a
negative level on a foe, the wielder must make a
powers check as if she had cast energy drain.

The end of the Altered Magic section lists all
the D&D Dungeon Master's Guide magic items that
require powers check to use, bear or craft.

 

 
