  

For example, for a cleric, the prerequisites for
crafting a hand of glory include animate dead, a 3rd-
level spell, and 288 XP. The cleric’s chance of
failing a powers check for creating a hand of glory is
thus 31% (3% + 28%). Creating some magic items
can incur a powers check with a chance of failure
well over 100%; consider crafting such an item to
be an Act of Ultimate Darkness.

As when casting profane spells, if a character
uses a metamagic feat to augment a spell thar
requires a powers check when crafting a magic
item, the spell’s augmented spell level determines
the chance of failing a powers check. Characters
who use feats are going out of their way to make
something happen; using them to aid heinous
sorceries is all the more noticeable to the Dark
Powers.

Che Effects of failure

No person is born evil. All player characters
are assumed to enter a Ravenloft campaign with
clean souls — they have never failed any powers
checks, and the forces of corruption have no claim
on their spirits. If the player wants, and if her
character meets the prerequisites, a hero can enter
the campaign with her Innocence intact (see
sidebar). Alternatively, ifthe playerand DM agree,

 

‘
§
§
|

'

aplayercharactercouldenterthe campaign having \

already failed one or more powers checks. Such a
character might be struggling against some dark
inner nature, or she might now be on a quest for
redemption from the mistakes of her earlier years.
(See Heroes of Light for more information on
Innocents and Champions of Darkness for addi-
tional information on characters who are struggling
to redeem themselves.)

If a character fails a powers check, the Dark
Powers respond with gifts of darkness — and the
character moves one stage toward corruption. At
each stayd, tht conupicd character receives at
oogule boon and ati sevomparying cue The ellts
and curses bestowed by the Dark Powers are inexo-
rably tied: arogue who gains low-light vision might
also suffer from light sensitivity, suffering -1 pen-
alties to attack rolls in bright daylight; a monk who
receives a bonus on her natural armor might grow
a thick, scaly hide. As with the curses offered
earlier in this chapter, these curses apply OR modi-
fiers whenever their effects are noticed. Curse
arising from failed powers checks should manifest
at least as often as the accompanying gift comes
into play.

 

   

A

   

The Dark Powers tailor all their gifts and
curses to the victim. As a rule, the Dark Powers’
gifts tend to make it easier fora corrupted character
to repeat her transgressions but harder to conceal
her crimes.

 

In the initial stages of corruption, when re-
demption is still at hand, both the gifts and the
curses bestowed by the Dark Powers tend to be
minor and easily concealed. In later stages, how-
ever, the trap starts to close. The curses gain
strength, forcing the corrupted character to rely
more heavily on her dark gifts — abilities that
often require more powers checks to use.

Innocence

Innocence representsasoul completely
free of the taint of evil. Any character can
choose to be Innocent at Ist level as long as
she meets the prerequisites. Innocence is a
supernatural quality. It is not a feat, be-
cause it is easily lost. Indeed, although all
people are born Innocent, most lose their
purity long before they leave childhood.

Prerequisites: You must be humanoid
and of good alignment and must have never
committed any act worthy of a powers
check, regardless of the success or failure of
that check.

Sa

Benefits: Your inner light repels Evil
You get a +3 divine bonus on all saving
throws against any spell effect or super-
natural ability that either requires a powers ;
check or is used by an evil creature.

Drawbacks: Your naiveté leaves you
with a —2 competence penalty on Horror
saves and Sense Motive checks. Evil clerics
can turn — but never destroy — you just as
they would rebuke undead. Spells in
Ravenloft cannot directly target moral
alignment, but some can target Innocence.

Losing Innocence: You immediately
lose all effects of Innocence if you ever fail
to meet the above prerequisites or if you
ever suffer a moderate or major Horror or
Madness effect. You may also voluntarily
lose your Innocence st anytime: Once lost,
however, Innocence can never be regained. ;

aa

wee ee

 

 
