      

Che Path of Corruption

The path from Innocence to the final damna-
tion of a darklord is distressingly short — a mere
seven steps — and all too easy to traverse.

Three example paths demonstrate a few of the
many different ways the path of corruption might
manifest. The Path of the Ringleader applies to a
character who prefers to linger in the shadows,
ordering her minions to do her dirty work for her.
The Path of the Brute applies to acruel and unsubtle
bully. The Path of the Coward applies to a character
who regularly abandons her friends and allies in the
face of danger to save herself. A DM may wish to
create a unique path of her own if a character is
fiendish in an unconventional way.

Each stage lists the three sample paths, as well as
example dread gifts that the Dark Powers can bestow.
The DM can use the Suggested Spell-Like Abilities
sidebar to select powers to model a corrupted
character's gradual transformation into a creature of
the night. Each stage also bestows a curse, each of
increasing severity. If the DM considers how these
powers and curses interact, she can transform what
may appear to be a collection of random modifiers
into an evocative descent into darkness.

Stage One: Che Caress

The Dark Powers reward a character's first
touch of evil with a minor boon. The character also
gains an embarrassing curse. A corrupted character
can usually conceal any physical deformities cre-
ated at this stage with little effort — gloves, tinted
glasses and so on.

Path of the Ringleader: The character gains the
ability to cast charm person once per day as a spell-
like ability, but whenever he does so, a strange
spider skitters out from under his clothing.

Path of the Brute: The character gains +2 bonus to
Strength, but his features grow subtly coarse and ugly.

Path of the Coward: The character gains +10-
foot bonus to speed, but only when loping along on
all fours.

 

 

 

 

Example Rewards

© +2 bonus to an ability score

* +10-foot bonus to speed

¢ +2 bonus on checks for one skill

© +1 bonus ona saving throw

¢ +1 bonus to natural armor

* Low-light vision

© Natural attack form (bite, claws, horns and
so on) dealing 1d3 points of damage

2

© Spell-like or supernatural ability equal to
Ist-level spell 1/day or 0-level spell 2/day

Stage Cwo: Che Enticement

Once the corrupted character demonstrates a will-
ingness to return to her evil ways, the Dark Powers grant
hergreaterassistance inherevil endeavors. They temper
this, however, with a frustrating curse.

Path of the Ringleader: The character develops a
ravenous appetite for vermin. On any day the character
eats at least a handful of spiders, he gains venomous
saliva; a successful bite attack carries the effects of
Mediumspidervenom (see the Dungeon Master's Guide).

Path of the Brute: The character grows larger
and more menacing. His ability score bonuses
increase to +4 to Strength and +2 to Dexterity, but
he suffers a -2 Charisma penalty.

Path of the Coward: The character gains a +4
bonus on Move Silently checks whenever moving
on all fours. The character grows thick pads on his
hands and feet, making them resemble paws.

Example Rewards

¢ +4 bonus to an ability score (or +2 to two
ability scores)
+20-foot bonus to speed
+4 bonus on checks for one skill

+2 bonus on a saving throw
+2 bonus to natural armor
Low-light vision

Natural attack form dealing 1d4 points of
damage

Poisonous natural attack form

A free feat

Spell-like or supernatural ability equal to
Ind-level spell 1/day, Ist-level spell 2/day,
or O-level spell 3/day

Stage Chree: The Invitation

The corrupted character has continued in her evil
ways, and any hope of redemprion is quickly fading. The
Dark Powers now offer a powerful boon but also bestow
a troublesome curse. A character who proceeds this far
down the path of comuption has difficulty tuning back.

Path of the Ringleader: The cha r can
summon swarm twice a day as a supernatural ability.
The swarm spews out of the character’s nose and
throat and crawls back inside his body when the
spell’s duration ends. The swarm always starts cen-
tered on the character, but he can move it as a
druid. The character also develops a ravenous
appetite for rotting meat; if he does not eat at least

    
