Ree ee

© Spell-like or supernatural ability equal to
5th-level I/day, 4th-level 2/day, 3rd-level
spell 3/day, or 2nd-level spell at will

* One free class level

Stage Six: Che Darklord

With his final act of evil, the corrupted character
proveshimselfbeyondredemptionandsealshisfate. The
Dark Powers grant the corrupted character his own
domain — a prison, molded in his own image, from
which he never escapes. Most new darklords rule over
small Islands of Terror or physical islands in one of the
Core’s seas. Hand-in-hand with the new domain comes
the darklord’s curse: the object of his most desperate
desire is placed within his sight but forever just beyond
his grasp. Darklords have widely differing abilities and
weaknesses; indeed, the Dark Powers seem to reward
captivating personalities with greater power. A few
powers known to be common to many darklords are
provided here. Secrets of the Dread Realms offers a
detailed gallery of darklords, providing extensive ex-
amples for DMs who want to design their own. Player
characterswhobecomedarklordsautomatically become
NPCs run by the DM.

Common Powers

  

© Closing the Borders: Darklords are impris-
oned within their domains but can force
others to share their fate. Darklords can
close the borders of their domains at will,
creating supernatural barriers of immense
power. No mortal magic can pierce a closed
domain border. In some domains, the Mists
themselves rise up to close the borders —
anyone who enters the Mists becomes dis-
oriented and eventually finds herself wan-
dering back into the domain. The manifes-
tations of closed borders are often a reflec-
tion of the darklord’s personality. A fe
darklords are said to be unable to close their
borders, as part of their darklord’s curse.

© Sinkhole of Evil: All darklords emit their own
sinkhole of evil. Ethereal resonance within.
a 300-foot radius of a darklord rises by one
rank. See the sidebar on sinkholes of evil
(below).

* Turn Resistance: All undead darklords re-
ceive a bonus to their turn resistance equal
to +1 or their Wisdom bonus, whichever is
greater.

© Detect Disruption: A darklord can sense the
disruption created by a paladin within his
domain with a successful Sense Motive
check. See Chapter Two.

 

2

   

————— i
