s

5

|

re,

   
 
 
    
 
   

© Persistence: Some darklords cease to age
when they receive their domain. For some,
the aging process simply slows, while others
continue to age normally.

Redemption

The road to damnation is swift but not certain.
It is possible for a character to recoil from her evil
deeds and, with time and toil, return to the light. If
a character is truly penitent, the Dark Powers may
subtly guide the corrupted character’s fate to test
her repentance. To escape the effects of a powers
check, the corrupted character must encounter an
event echoing the one that resulted in her failed

 

that she can to protect the lives of the next group
of helpless captives she encounters.

It is no mean feat to scrub corruption out of the
soul, however. The character must repeat the process
anumber of times equal to the chance of failure of the
original powers check. If the character accomplishes
this, she can attempt a new powers check at the same
chance of failure. If the character succeeds at this
check, the Dark Powers loosen their grip on her soul;
she retreats one stage along the path of corruption.
(A corrupted character at the Embrace would retreat
to the Invitation, and so forth.) Characters can
possibly work their way back beyond the Caress, but
they can never reclaim Innocence. Acts of Ultimate

powers check. This time around, the corrupted Darkness cannot be redeemed.
character must choose the righteous path. For
example, if a character failed a powers check for

killing a group of helpless captives, she must do all

It may even be possible for a darklord to
redeem his blackened soul — but in all the known
history of Ravenloft, not one ever has.

Suggested Spell-Like Abilities

The DM should tailor the effects of these spells to suit the twisted nature of a failed powers check. As
examples, a corrupted character may be able to polymorph into or summon only a specific type of creature,
such as a wolf or monstrous vermin, or the foul vapors of a stinking cloud might spew from a corrupted
character’s gaping mouth. At the DM’s discretion, these powers can manifest as supernatural rather than
spell-like abilities. These abilities take effect as if cast by a sorcerer of the corrupted character’s level.

O-level—dancing lights, daze, detect poison, ghost sound, inflict minor wounds, mage hand, open/close,
resistance™.

 

 

Ist level—bane, cause fear, charm animal, charm person, chill touch, command, curse water, deathwatch,
delay poison*, detect animals or plants, detect snares and pits, disguise self, doom, endure elements*, expeditious
retreat, faerie fire, feather fall*, hold portal, hypnotism, inflict light wounds, jump*, magic fang*, pass without
trace*, protection from good*, silent image, sleep, speak with animals, summon nature’s ally I, ventriloquism.

2nd level—alter self, animal trance, arcane lock, barkskin*, bear's endurance*, bull’s strength*, cat's
grace*, chill metal, darkness, darkvision*, death knell, desecrate, detect thoughts, enthrall, fog cloud, ghoul touch,
inflict moderate wounds, invisibility* , knock, minor image, pyrotechnics, rage , resist energy”, scare, see invisibility,
silence, snare, soften earth and stone, spectral hand, spider climb* , summon nature's ally II, summon swarm, tree
shape, warp wood, web, whispering wind.

3rd level—animate dead, bestow curse, charm monster, clairaudience/clairvoyance, confusion, contagion,
crushing despair, deeper darkness, diminish plants, dominate animal, fear, fly*, gaseous form*, greater magic
fang*, haste*, inflict serious wounds, major image, meld into stone, phantom steed, poison, protection from
energy*, scrying, sculpt sound, speak with dead, speak with plants, stinking cloud, suggestion, summon nature's
ally III, vampiric touch, water breathing*.

4th level—arcane eye, dimension door, discern lies, dominate person, enervation, giant vermin, greater
invisibility*, inflict critical wounds, modify memory, neutralize poison*, phantasmal killer, polymorph, rusting
grasp, spell immunity*, stoneskin’*, summon nature’s ally IV, tree stride, unholy blight

5th level—awaken, circle of doom, dispel good, dream, ethereal jaunt, false vision, greater command, hold
monster, insect plague, magic jar, mass inflict light wounds, nightmare, persistent image*, slay living, spell
resistance*, summon nature’s ally V, telekinesis, unhallow.

* The tainted gifts of the Dark Powers are inherently selfish. These spell effects can target only the
corrupted character.

 

    

Ae a*

 

 

Was eee ee

 

 
