eer mmm nal, ith

 

@ho Knows Chis?

Altered Magic

is now the moment still and dread,
When Sorcerers use their baleful power;
When Graves give up their buried dead
D To profit by the sanctioned hour
— Matthew Lewis, The Monk
‘Acleric usesa magical glyph to seal an ancient
crypt, trapping the evil within. A necromancer
toils in a moonlit graveyard, animating a horde of
undead minions. Many characters in Ravenloft
possess the power to twist or even shatter the laws
of nature for their own ends. Magic allows mortals
tocontrol men’s minds, smite their foes with super-
natural energies or even grant life to the dead. In
short, magic allows mortals to play at being deities.

 

This section details the limitations and conse-
quences of using magic under the cold gaze of the
Dark Powers.

* General Guidelines presents laws that the
Dark Powers impose on all magic and supernatural
abilities.

© Spells in Ravenloft details the specific
changes affecting the spells from the D&D Player’s
Handbook and provides some additional spells
unique to the Ravenloft setting.

* Altered Magic Items has additional general
guidelines that apply to all magic items.

* Magic Items in Ravenloft offers the specific
changes made to the magic items and artifacts from
the D&D Dungeon Master’s Guide.

Spellcasters native to Ravenloft have learned
most of the limitations of magic through genera-
tions of research. Folklore is likewise filled with
warnings against the risks of tampering with the
laws of nature, though these superstitions often
exaggerate or distort the truth. If a spell effect —
such as detecting moral alignment — simply does
not function in Ravenloft, most spellcasters be-
lieve that the effect is inherently impossible.
They may even scoff openly at the thought that
such things may be possible in other lands.

Spellcasters from other worlds have to learn
how magic has been warped through trial and
error. Ifyouare playingan “outlander” spellcasting
hero in Ravenloft, you may want to skip the rest
of this chapter, preserving the mystery and allow-
ing you to learn magic’s secrets along with your
character.

ere

,
4
i
y
f

Yee

oe

 

General Guidelines

All spell effects and supernatural powers in
Ravenloft must obey the following guidelines. Use
these guidelines when introducing new magic into
Ravenloft. Of course, a DM can also fine-tune
these rules to foster a more horrific atmosphere in
any setting.

Specific spell alterations follow this section.

Abjuration

These spells would normally return an
extraplanar creature to its home plane, but the
Dark Powers do not allow such easy escape from
theirrealm. Instead, abjuration spells transport the
creature toa random location (selected by the DM)
within Ravenloft (but not across closed domain
borders).

Astral

The Dark Powers severely restrict Ravenloft’s
connection to other planes. Although astral mat-
ter can be drawn into Ravenloft, any spell that
would normally project a subject into the Astral
Plane automatically fails. However, see
“Teleportation.”

Closed Domain Borders

No amount of mortal magic can overcome the
effects of a closed domain border. However, a
creature’s natural or extraordinary abilities may
render it immune to the effects of a specific border
closure.

Example: Creatures without a Constitution
score have no biological processes, making them
immune to poison by their very nature; thus they
can pass through poison-based closed border ef-
fects without harm.

Conjuration

Conjured creatures are more difficult to con-
trol in Ravenloft. In the round that the creature
appears, the creature can attempt a Will save with
a—2 penalty against your spell. Suc indicates
that the creature escapes your control and can act
freely. Generally, it seeks to return to its home
dimension.

 

 

Calling: All calling spells contain an implicit
pact between you and the outsider or elemental
you conjure: when the creature has performed its
assigned task, it is normally free to return to its
plane of origin. Yet, the Dark Powers severely
restrict escape to other planes, preventing a called

 

 

 

 
