 

creature from leaving Ravenloft unless it can find
an exit, like any other creature. When the called
creature attempts to leave Ravenloft after com-
pleting its task and discovers it cannot, the pact is
broken. You lose all control over the creature,
which is likely to feel betrayed.

A called creature’s behavior once a broken
pact frees it from your control depends on the
creature’s alignment. Evil orneutral creatures might
try to destroy you in retaliation.

If you attempt to call an elemental, there is a
20% chance that the spell produces a dread el-
emental instead. Dread elementals are detailed in
Denizens of Dread. DMs without access to that
accessory can treat dread elementals as standard
Monster Manual elementals, with the following
changes: dread elementals have the Mists descrip-
tor, and their moral alignment is always evil.

Usinga calling spell to conjure an evil creature
requires a powers check.

Summoning: Summoning spells are signifi-
cantly warped by the severe restrictions on planar
travel in Ravenloft. Rather than summoning out-
siders for assistance, you conjure creatures taken
from the surrounding region. Thus, only creatures
found in the domain in which this spell is cast can
be summoned.

 

 

  

Summoned creatures in Ravenloft do not use
the outsider template. Thus, summon monster I
would summon a dire rat, not a fiendish dire rat.
Attempts tosummon an outsider such asa succubus
or kyton automatically fail unless such a creature
happens to be in the domain. Attempts to summon
elementals automatically produce dread elementals.

Most domains, such as those of the Core, have
rich ecologies where many of the creatures listed
under the summon spells can be found. Some
wretched domains have extremely limited or even
nonexistent ecologies. If you choose a creature to
summon that isnot present in the domain, the spell
fails. Chapter Four lists each domain with its ecol-
ogy:

Full Ecology: This is always followed by a list of
climate/terrain conditions found in the domain.
Any creature native to these conditions is usually
available to be summoned.

Sparse Ecology: The domain has an extremely
limited ecology; this is usually the case in domains
with blasted or alien landscapes. Only vermin and

 

oozes can be summoned.

No Ecology: There are no living creatures
within the domain. Only Mist creatures can be
summoned.

Summoned creatures return from whence they
came at the end of the spell’s duration, as described
in the D&D Player’s Handbook. Because they never
cross planar borders, no pact is broken, and the
creatures do not turn against the caster.

If you summon creatures under the influence
of the darklord, the creatures still appear, but the
influence modifiers still apply (see Enchantment”).

Mists: Elementals or outsiders with the Mists
descriptor are conjured from the Mists themselves
— the planar fabric of the Realm of Dread. These
creatures can be summoned from any domain, and
can cross closed domain borders without harm.
However, being extensions of the Land of Mists
itself, they never have the extraplanar descriptor,
phylacteries orreality wrinkles (see Fiends in Chap-
ter Five), and they can never escape Ravenloft’s
boundaries.

Detecting Alignment

The Dark Powers shield evil in their realm.
Any attempt to detect a target’s moral alignment
automatically fails.

Some spells can or must be defined as affecting
a specific alignment (chaotic evil, neutral good
and soon) at the time of casting. In these cases, you
specify only the intended target’s ethical align-
ment. The spell then targets any applicable subject
with the chosen aspect in its ethical alignment.
However, these spells can be specifically targeted
to affect Innocents.

Example: A spell defined to affect “neutral”
creatures would affect neutral good, true neutral
and neutral evil creatures equally.

Magic effects that detect alignment only in an
indirect fashion (such as protection from evil or a
paladin’s smite evil ability) still work normally.

Death

Spells with the death descriptor harm their
target by directly attacking its life force — its soul,
in essence. In Ravenloft, casting such a spell re-
quires a powers check. Targets killed by death
spells ofien renmay from the grave as undead oxea-
tures.

Divination
Divination is notoriously untrustworthy in
Ravenloft, except in the hands of the Vistani.

Ss
