;
4
;
.
;
\
}
NN

ng

 

Attempts to peer into the future or to petition one's
deity for guidance often produce misleading results
or fail completely. It might be said that the Dark
Powers want mortals to make their own choices, for
good or ill.

The Dark Powers also shield undead creatures
in their realm. Such creatures can always attempt
a Will save to avoid any spell effect that would
reveal their undead nature.

Scrying: Scrying other locations, as with the
arcane eye spell, is more reliable but carries its own
risks. These spells normally create an invisible
sensor. In Ravenloft, they create a visible, ghostly
sensor resembling the caster’s own equivalent sen-
sory organ. Any creature can detect the sensor by
making a DC 16 Spot check, due to its fine size

The caster may be vulnerable to attacks sent
through the sensor. Visual sensors can channel
gaze attacks, and auditory sensors can channel
sonic attacks. A vampire that notices the ghostly
eye created by clairvoyance can target the caster
with its domination gaze, for example.

  

 

Sinkboles of Evil

Ravenloft is a land shaped by passion and fear.
Emotions linger, forming ethereal resonance. (See
Ghosts in chapter 5 for more detailson resonance.)
If these emotions are powerful enough, they can
seep into the subconscious minds of creatures on
the Material.

All resonance is imbued with one or more
focal emotions. The spells that target specific emo-
tions such as fear or crushing despair in the Player's
Handbook offers an excellent starting point for
possible emotions. A secluded grove used for a
lovers’ tryst may retain echoes of their desire; a
torture chamber may retain the fear and hatred its
victims felt for their captors. If the resonance is
powerful enough —as determined by its rank — it
applies a penalty on any Will saves made to resist
its focal emotions. As an example, creatures in the
lovers’ grove might suffer a penalty on Will saves
against any effect that would create feelings of love
or affection, including charm spells. Creatures in
the torture chamber may suffer penalties to saves
against fear effects or the crushing despair spell. See
the table below for the appropriate DC modifiers.

When acts of evil spawn resonance, as with
the torture chamber above or the lair of a murder-
ous creature, that imbued evil causes the area to
become spiritually unclean. In these “sinkholes of
evil,” the spiritual malevolence quietly weakens

 

 

 

 

Enchantment

If you force a compelled creature to commit an
act requiring a powers check, it is you who must
make the powers check, not your unwilling min-
ion.

Some darklords have the ability to control
certain creatures within their domains. If you at-
tempt to control (either through charm or
compulsion) the mind of a creature under the
influence of adarklord, or try to free acreature from
a darklord’s influence, that creature stacks the
lord’s Charisma bonus with its own Will save
bonus. No cteature under the influence ofadarklord
can be directed to attack that darklord; if ordered
to do so, the pitiful creature may resolve its confu-
sion by fleeing the scene.

Example: A vampiric darklord may be able to
control the wolves in his domain at will. If you
attempt to charm or compel any wolves in the
vampire’s domain, those wolves add the darklord’s
Charisma bonus on their Will saves to resist your
spell.

resolve and bolsters the undead. In these foul
regions, the listed DC penalty applies to all Will
saves and all attempts to turn or rebuke undead.

Ravenloft is riddled with these dens of evil.
Darklords carry their own sinkholes with them.
Resonance automatically rises by 1 rank (to a
maximum of rank 5) within a 300-foot radius of a
darklord. When the darklord moves on, the reso-
nance returns to its former level.

Characters with the Ethereal Empathy feat
can sense these imbued emotions. Sinkholes of evil
distort resonance, making the scene appear dark
and menacing.

Rank Ethereal Material
Modifier Modifier

1 +0 +0

2 +1 +0

3 +2 +1

4 +4 +2

5 +6 +3

Rank: The rank of the underlying ethereal
resonance. See chapter 5 for guidelines on assign-
ing resonance ranks.

Ethereal Modifier: The DC modifier applied
to Will saves made in the Near Ethereal.

Material Modifier: The DC modifier applied
to Will saves made on the Material Plane.

 

~~

See ©

wily rate

 
