  

Ethereal

Any spell effect that would normally transport
asubject to the Ethereal Plane actually leads to the
Near Ethereal, the borderland between Ravenloft
and the Deep Ethereal. A character who shifts to
the Near Ethereal isstill within the Realm of Dread
and cannot travel deeper into the Ethereal Plane.

The Near Ethereal is known by many names in
Ravenloft. It is the Other Side in Mordent, the
Gray Realm in Darkon, and is called the Spirit
World in many mystical traditions. The Near Ethe-
real isa land of lingering memories and of the dead,
where incorporeal undead linger, unable or unwill-
ing to move on to their final rest.

Strong emotions can take on tangible form in
the Near Ethereal. See the “Sinkholes of Evil”
sidebar for more details.

Evil
The effects of spells with the evil descriptor
automatically require a powers check, but their ef-
fects are usually enhanced. As an example, an evil
spell may get a +1 bonus to its effective spell level.

 

€xtraplanar

Although Ravenloft is located in the Deep
Ethereal, by fiat of the Dark Powers all spell effects
function as though it were on the Material Plane.
Creatures originally from the Material Plane are
considered to be on their home plane. In Ravenloft,
only outsiders and elementals should be treated as
extraplanar.

Illusion (Shadow)

Ravenloft has strong ties to the Plane of
Shadow. Spells that utilize shadow material are
more effective, but dangerous to cast.

If you use shadow material to create illusionary
creatures, objects or forces, those conjurations are
20% stronger than the spell indicates. In addition,
since the illusionary subjectis crafted from shadowstuff
rather than summoned from another plane, the spell
is not affected by Ravenloft’s restrictions on conjura-
tion magic (see “Conjuration”), granting the caster
full access to the summoning lists found in the D&D
Player's Handbook. Illusory outsiders spawned from
shadowstuff never have phylacteries or reality
wrinkles.

If you use shadow energy to create an illusory
spell, damaging spells deal 20% more damage than
listed, and nondamaging effects have an extra 20%
chance of working.

 

However, at the end of the spell’s duration,
you must attempt a Will save against your own
spell. If you fail this saving throw, any shadow
creations that have not been dispelled spontane-
ously transform into true shadows (see the Monster
Manual), with total HD equal to the effective spell
level. These shadows are free willed.

Mind-Hffecting

The Dark Powers shield undead creatures within
theirrealm. Undead creatures with Intelligence scores
can choose to project false thoughts to those who use
mental powers on them. An undead creature can
project these false thoughts automatically (without
need for a saving throw), but if the creature is
unaware of the attempt to read its mind or is caught
by surprise, it cannot hide its true thoughts.

Typically, undead creatures project peaceful,
friendly and reassuring thoughts to lull the caster’s
suspicions. The creature can allow access to its true
thoughts, if it so desires.

If you attempt to contact the alien mind of an
aberration, an elemental, an ooze, an outsider, a
plant, a darklord or a creature suffering from any
Madness effect, you must make a Madness save.
(Druids and clerics with the Plant domain are
exempt when contacting plants.)

Necromaney

Necromantic spells disrupt the natural cycles
of life and death. The only necromantic spells that
do not require powers checks are those that are
purely defensive, do not create or enhance undead
creatures and do not require the manipulation of
your life force or that of another subject. (Example:
the deathwatch spell.)

Note: In Ravenloft, it is often easier to create
undead creatures but harder to control them.

Necromantic spells that require powers checks
often feature enhanced effects. The few thatdo not
require powers checks often carry risks not found
when cast in other worlds.

Nondimensional Spaces

Numerous spells and magic items can create
small pocket dimensions that are literally larger on
the inside than on the outside; characters can use
these spaces to store equipment or even take shel-
ter. If the non- or extradimensional space has only
asingle entrance —suchas a bag of holding, portable
hole or rope trick — then the space is considered to
still be contained within the domain’s planar fab-
ric. Entering the space is not considered crossing a
