eh

 
  

  
 
 
 
   

  

 

domain border, and all domain effects remain in
effect. Note, however, that if the nondimensional
space is particularly large and comfortable, the
Dark Powers may eventually take notice; see the
rod of security listed in the section on altered magic
items (below) for one such example.

If the non- or extradimensional space has
multiple entrances that can be accessed from mul-
tiple domains or dimensions, such as a bag of
devouring, then entering the space is considered
crossing a domain border. Darklords can never
enter such spaces, and no one can access them
when within a domain whose borders are closed.

Celeportation

The magic of teleportation typically involves
instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane.
Although Ravenloft’s restricted planar ties would
seem to render this process impossible, the Dark
Powers do allow teleportation spells to function
within their realm — but only under their own
tules. In Ravenloft, teleportation is instantaneous
transportation through the Mists.

For most purposes, each domain within
Ravenloft should be considered a separate plane.
Spells below 6th level cannot transport creatures
or objects across domain borders. Powerful spells
(such as greater teleport) can accomplish this, butno
spell can transport anyone or anything across a
closed domain border or out of Ravenloft.

   

Cransmutation

In Ravenloft, involuntary physical transforma-
tions — be they the result of afflicted lycanthropy or
a baleful polymorph spell — are torturous, hideously
painful displays of wrenching flesh and crackling
bone. Although the pain dealt by these transforma-
tions does not actually cause the subject any harm or
alter the effects of the magic or supernatural force
involved, witnesses may be subject to Horror saves.
The pained subject itself must succeed at a DC 15
Fortitude save or drop any held items. Voluntary
transformations do not deal this agony, though they
may still provoke Horror saves, particularly if the
subject assumes a monstrous form or the witnesses do
not understand the magic forces involved. Other
forms of transmutation are typically unchanged.

eather

Some darklords control the weather in their
domains or at least exert influence on it. Spell
effects cannot override the darklord’s control of
the weather. The darklord may choose to let the

 

2

oN

a Ces SO el eee

<4

 

  

B

spell work normally, but he is aware that this spell
was cast, even if he takes no action to thwart it.

Spells in Ravenloft
Any aspect of a D&D Player's Handbook spell
not altered in the following listings functions nor-
mally in Ravenloft.
Align Weapon: See DetectingAlignment.
Alter Self: See Transmutation,
Animal Growth: See Transmutation.
Animal Messenger: See Enchantment
Animal Shapes: See Transmutation.
Animal Trance:

  
 

 

¢ Enchantment.

Animate Dead: See Necromancy. This spell
works almost too well in Ravenloft. Normally, the
highest number of undead skeletons or zombies you
can animate with a single casting is equal to your
caster level in HD. When clerics cast this spell in
Ravenloft, however, this rises to twice their caster
level in HD.

You may add as many HD to your undead
creations as you desire during casting, as long as the
total does not exceed twice your caster level.

The maximum number of undead you can
control at any one time (including multiple cast-
ings) is 4 HD worth of undead creatures per caster
level.

Remember that the HD of an undead creature
affects its resistance to turning and rebuking at-
tempts. Furthermore, creatures whose HD exceed
your caster level can attempt a Will save to break
free of your control.

In Ravenloft, casting this spell requires no
material component, but it does require a powers
check.

Antimagic Field: See Closed Domain Borders.

Antipathy: See Detecting Alignment.

Arcane Bye: See Divination (Scrying).

Arcane Sight: See Divination (Scrying).

Arcane Sight, Greater: See Divination (Scrying).

Astral Projection: See Astral.

Atonement: This spell cannot remove the
effects of a failed powers check.

Awaken: If you awaken a plant to humanlike
intelligence, it slowly and inexorably absorbs the
evil taint of the Realm of Dread from the very soil.
Once a month, the awakened plant must succeed
at a Will save (DC = the number of months that
have passed since it was awakened) or have its
moral alignment permanently shift to evil

 

 

 
