 

Baleful Polymorph: Casting this spell requires
apowers check, particularly if the spell proves fatal
for the target.

Banishment: See Abjuration and Extraplanar.
Any outsider or elemental targeted by this spell
makes its Will saving throw with a +4 bonus.

Bestow Curse: Curses are very powerful in
Ravenloft. The stronger the curse, the less likely it
is that a mere spell can suspend it. You may invent
your own curse, as mentioned in the D&D Player's
Handbook. Such curses should be designed using
the guidelines for inventing curses presented ear-
lier in this chapter.

Curses you invent may be of any severity but
must include an escape clause. The curses in the
spell listing are considered to be of dangerous
severity.

After you craft your curse, the DM assigns its
severity. This severity dealsapenalty on the subject’s
saving throw; these modifiers can be found under
“Lifting Curses,” earlier in this chapter.

Casting bestow curse requires a powers check.
The chance of failure is determined by the severity
of the curse, not the effective spell level.

Binding: See Detecting Alignment.

Blasphemy: See Abjuration, Extraplanar. A
creature banished to another domain cannot come
within sight of you for one full day. Casting this
spell requires a powers check.

Blight: Casting this spell requires a powers
check and may also draw the darklord’s attention
to the caster due to the darklord’s connection to
the land.

Blink: See Ethereal.

Break Enchantment: See Enchantment if
you attempt to use this spell to free a creature from
the influence of a darklord.

 

 

If youuse this spell to dispel a curse, the subject
must make a successful Will save to temporarily be
rid of the curse’s effects; the duration of relief is only
10 minutes per caster level. This is enough time to
discard cursed magic items.

Calm Animals: See Enchantment. All crea-
tures under the influence of a darklord are allowed
saving throws to resist the effects of this spell.

Charm Animal: See Enchantment.

Charm Monster: See Enchantment.

Charm Monster, Mass: See Enchantment.

Charm Person: See Enchantment.

Chill Touch: If a living creature targeted by
this spell fails its Fortitude save, it suffers 1 point of

 

 

 

temporary Strength damage and 1 point of tempo-
rary Constitution damage. If the Fortitude save
succeeds, a living target still suffers 1 point of
temporary Strength damage. Casting this spell
requires a powers check.

cle of Death: Creatures killed by this spell
must succeed at a Will save or spontaneously
animate as skeletons under your control. Casting
this spell requires a powers check.

Note: See animate dead for the total number of
undead creatures you can have under your control
at any one time.

Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: See Divination
(Scrying). A “familiar” place is one you have vis-
ited personally. If you have observed the location
only through indirect means, there isa 50% chance
that the spell fails. A darklord is considered famil-
iar with the entirety of his or her domain.

An “obvious” place denotes one directly con-
nected to the scene before you. If you see a door,
you can cast the spell on the other side of the door,
but you cannot cast it around a corner and through
the door.

 

This spell can reach only across a single Mist-
bound region and does not work directly on the
Mists.

Clone: If you grow a duplicate while the
original still lives, the Dark Powers infuse the
clone’s flesh with its own life force, mirroring that
of the original at the time the piece of flesh was
taken. The duplicate’s moral alignment is always
evil, and the clone is obsessed with the goal of
destroying the original so it can replace her. Cast-
ing this spell requires a powers check.

Command: See Enchantment.

Command, Greater: See Enchantment.

Command Plants: Some darklords may have
influence over plant creatures.

Command Undead: Casting this spell requires
a powers check.

Commune: See Divination. This spell simply
does not function in Ravenloft.

Commune with Nature: The radius of effect
never extends beyond domain borders. You may
attempt tosense the general location of the darklord
as one of your three facts, as long as he is within
range and you know thar such a person exists.

Ifyouselect this option, however, the darklord
getsa Will save toavoid detection. Whether or not
the darklord succeeds at this saving throw, he
instantly becomes aware of your general location.

 

 
