 

Consecrate: This spell works normally in
Ravenloft. If consecrate is cast within a sinkhole of
evil, the two effects counteract. If the area of the
sinkhole exceeds the area of the spell effect, then
the region not covered by thespell isstilla sinkhole
of evil with the original modifiers.

Contact Other Plane: See Divination, Mind-
Affecting. This spell opens a mental conduit to the
darklord. Duration is reduced to 1 minute per 2
caster levels. You know only that you have con-
tacted a powerful, malevolent force. The darklord
need not answer truthfully; in fact, he does not
have to answer at all. The DM should roleplay any
conversation between you and the darklord.

Neither party can make attacks through this
mental contact, but the lord discovers your ap-
proximate location, to within two miles. The
darklord may decide to humor your questions, ot he
may opt to dispatch minions to hunt you down.

Contactinga mindso filled with evil can easily
drive a person insane. You must make a Madness
save, using the Mental Contact guidelines to deter-
mine DC. Make this save in lieu of the Intelligence
check discussed in the spell description. A darklord
can willingly project thoughts of evil and despair at
you. If he does this, add +2 to the DC of the
Madness save.

Contagion: Casting this spell requires a pow-
ers check.

Control Plants: See Enchantment. Some
darklords may have influence over plant creatures.

Control Undead: All undead creatures with
more than 3 HD adda +2 bonus on their Will save
to resist control. This spell cannot affect darklords.
ting this spell requires a powers check.
Control Weather: See Closed Domain Bor-
ders, Weather.

Control Winds: See Closed Domain Borders,
Weather.

Create Greater Undead: As create undead.
Note that many greater undead are template crea-
tures and thus may still possess many or all the
memories and abilities they had while alive. Cast-
ing this spell requires a powers check.

Create Undead: Add a +1 bonus to your
effective caster level when casting this spell. Cast-
ing this spell requires a powers check.

Curse Water: Casting this spell requires a
powers check

Daylight: Although the light from this spell is
as bright as sunlight, it is not considered true

  

 

a

sunlight. Therefore, creatures affected by true sun-
light (such as vampires) suffer no ill effects from
daylight beyond those in the spell description.

Death Knell: The effects of this spell last for
20 minutes per HD of the target creature. Casting
this spell requires a powers check.

Deathwatch: Undead creatures with Intelli-
gence scores may attempt a Will save to avoid
detection as “undead.” If the save is successful, the
creature reads as “fighting off death” if unwounded
or “fragile” if wounded. This effect holds even if the
creature has an obviously undead appearance.

Demand: See Enchantment

Desecrate: The modifiers applied by this spell
stack with those applied by a sinkhole of evil
Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Destruction: If the subject of this spell suc-
ceeds at her Fortitude save but is still killed by the
secondary damage, she may return as a type of
incorporeal undead (of the DM’s choice) with total
HD equal to the slain victim’s character level. This
incorporeal undead is not under your control. Cast-
ing this spell requires a powers check.

Detect Evil: See Detecting Alignment.

Detect Good: See Detecting Alignment.

Detect Thoughts: See Mind-Affecting.

Detect Undead: Undead creatures receive a
Willsave toavoid detection. The aurastrength you
detect is based on the number of undead creatures
that fail their Will saves.

Example: Gennifer casts detect undead on a
dark pit, where lurks a group of 12 zombies. Only 4
of these zombies fail their saving throw. Thus,
Gennifer detects only a“moderate” aura of undeath.

Dictum: See Extraplanar.

Dimension Door: See Teleportation. If you
arrive ina place that is already occupied by a solid
body, you are trapped in the Mists, not the Astral,
but may attempt to return as described in the
Player's Handbook.

Dimensional Anchor: The target of this spell
is unable to cross any domain borders or enter the
Mists for the spell’s duration.

Dimensional Lock: This spell prevents travel
through the Mists within its area of effect.

Discern Location: This spell works normally,
except that it never reveals on what plane any
subject in Ravenloft lies. You are aware that this
information has been left strangely “blank.” This is
true even when the spell is cast on worlds beyond
the Realm of Dread.
