Le

Dismissal: See Abjuration and Extraplanar. If
the extraplanar creature fails its saving throw,
there isa 50% chance that the creature is teleported
toa random location in Ravenloft. Otherwise, the
spell has no effect.

Dispel Evil: See Abjuration. The spell does
dispel enchantments cast by evil creatures and evil
spells. However, it is generally ineffective against
curses of vengeance (see “Curses”).

Dispel Good: As dispel evil.

Dispel Magic: See Closed Domain Borders.
This spell cannot dispel curses of vengeance.

Dispel Magic, Greater: See Closed Domain
Borders. This spell cannot dispel curses of ven-
geance.

2)

Disrupting Weapon: If weapon that has this
spell cast upon it destroys an undead creature
important to the realm’s darklord, the darklord
becomes aware of the loss of his minion and knows
the general whereabouts of the wielder of the
weapon.

Divination: The base chance of a correct
divination remains unchanged, but you are not
made aware if the dice roll fails. Instead, the Dark
Powers provide an answer that is purposefully mis-
leading and possibly malicious.

Dominate Animal: See Enchantment, Mind-
Affecting.

Dominate Monster: See Enchantment, Mind-
Affecting.

Dominate Person: See Enchantment, Mind-
Affecting.

Drawmij’s Instant Summons: The item can-
not be summoned through closed domain borders.

Elemental Swarm: See Conjuration (Sum-
moning). At the end of the spell’s duration, each
summoned dread elemental must makea Will save.
If the save is successful, you no longer have any
control over that creature; it may run amok or even
attack you. If the dread elemental fails its save, it
vanishes without incident, returning to the Mists.

Energy Drain: As enervation, except that any
person killed by this spell must succeed at a Will
save or become an undead creature (of the DM’s
choice) with as many HD as the victim had levels.

Enervation: For each negative level the sub-
ject gains, she also takes 1 point of permanent hit
point damage unless a cleric casts lesser restoration
on the subject within one day, restoration within
one week, or greater restoration within thirty days.

 

 

In Ravenloft, the maximum number of tempo-
rary hitpoints this spell can give an undead creature
is 50. Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Enlarge Person: See Transmutation.

Enlarge Person, Mass: See Transmutation.

Ethereal Jaunt: See Ethereal.

Etherealness: See Ethereal.

 

Eyebite: Because this spell uses the power of
evil energy, casting it requires a powers check.

Find the Path: This spell cannot find loca-
tions outside the domain in which iris cast. If Mists
surround the domain, you can focus on them to
reach the border.

The Realm of Dread contains a few physical
portals to other worlds. If such an exit is within the
domain, this spell can guide you to it, provided you
know what you're looking for. As some portals
appear only under specific conditions, find the path
s no effect if the portal is not present when the
spell is cast.

Finger of Death: Three days after being killed
by this spell, the victim’s body automatically ani-
mates as a zombie. This new zombie retains its
Intelligence score and has as many Hit Dice as the
victim had levels. If you are present when this
happens, the zombie must make a Will save. Fail-
ure means that the zombie falls under your control;
success means that it becomes free willed. A free-
willed zombie despises you and seeks you out,
hoping to wreak its vengeance. If you are not
present when the zombie animates, it automati-
cally becomes free willed. Casting this spell requires
a powers check.

Flesh to Stone: See Transmutation.

Forbiddance: See Abjuration, Detecting
Alignment and Extraplanar.

Freedom: See Closed Domain Borders. This
spell cannot free a darklord from his domain.

Freedom of Movement: See Closed Domain
Borders.

 

   

 

Gaseous Form: See Transmutation.

Gate: The gate created by this spell is one-way
only, leading into but not out of Ravenloft. This
spell can be used in two ways:

Planar Travel: See Teleportation.

Calling Creatures: See Conjuration (Calling).
If you know the true name of a specific outsider or
elemental creature already within Ravenloft, you
can use this spell to summon it and demand a
service. Trying to conjure an evil creature with this
spell requires a powers check.

 
