 

Geas/Quest: As lesser geas, except that the
additional punishment you assign can be equiva-
lent to any curse of up to Dangerous severity.

Geas, Lesser: Normally, a recipient who does
not complete your commands suffers cumulative
penalties to her ability scores. In Ravenloft, you
may assign an alternative punishment for not ful-
filling the assigned geas. The punishment cannot
be life threatening (nothing more severe than a
Frustrating curse), but it must slowly worsen each
day that the quest is ignored. Likewise, following
the geas should gradually cancel the punishment.
Returning to the geas is considered the curse’s
escape clause.

For example, a subject might shrink 10% in
height each day she violates the geas. Each day the
creature returns to the geas, she reverses one day of
shrinkage.

Use the severity of the additional punishment
to evaluate the effectiveness of remove curse in
alleviating the effects of a geas.

Gentle Repose: This spell can be cast on
corporeal undead. If the undead creature is freshly
dead, it can maintain a lifelike appearance for the
duration of the spell.

Ghoul Touch: You automatically succeed at
your Fortitude save to resist the carrion stench
emitted by the target of your spell. Casting this
spell requicesa powers check,

Giant Vermin: See Transmutation.

Glyph of Warding: See Detecting Align-
ment. Storing a spell that requires a powers check
ina spell glyph requires a powers check as if you had
cast that spell.

Glyph of Warding, Greater: As glyph of ward-
ing.

Hallow: This spell works normally, except
that its duration is indefinite rather than instanta-
neous. Although the effects granted by this spell
cannot be dispelled, they gradually dissipate if the
site is not maintained through regular use and
worship. If the site is abandoned for any reason, the
effects of hallow fade to nothing after a number of
years equal to your caster level.

If you fix a spell effect to the hallow site, see
Detecting Alignment.

Harm: Casting this spell requires a powers
check.

Helping Hand: The ghostly hand cannot cross
domain borders. If the subject is in a different

domain than you, the hand does not find her, even
if that subject is within your visual range.

Holy Word: See Abjuration, Extraplanar.

Horrid Wilting: Any living creature killed by
this spell must succeed at a Fortitude save or
become a 2nd-rank ancient (see Ancient Dead in
Chapter Five) bent on destroying you. However,
the mummy usually does not attack immediately,
as it has years in which to plan its revenge. Casting
this spell requires a powers check.

Imprisonment: This spell cannot affect
darklords, who are protected by their innate con-
nection to their domains. When cast by clerics of
Ezra, the subject is actually trapped within the
Mists, but the effects of the spell otherwise remain
the same.

Inflict Critical Wounds: Casting this spell
requires a powers check

Inflict Critical Wounds, Mass: As inflict criti-
cal wounds.

Inflict Light Wounds: As inflict critical wounds.

Inflict Light Wounds, Mass. As inflict critical
wounds.

Inflict Minor Wounds: As inflict critical wounds.

Inflict Minor Wounds, Mass: As inflict critical
wounds.

Inflict Moderate Wounds: As deal critical
wounds.

Inflict Moderate Wounds, Mass: As inflict
critical wounds.

Inflict Serious Wounds: As inflict critical
wounds.

Inflict Serious Wounds, Mass: As inflict criti-
cal woun

 

Insanity: Adda +1 bonus to the effective spell
level. The Open Mind feat is effective in the Will
save against this spell. Casting this spell requires a
powers check.

Insect Plague: See Conjuration (Summon-
ing).

Tron Body: See Transmutation.

Legend Lore: This spell does not reveal the
identity of a darklord, but if the darklord is known,
it may reveal some information about him.

Leomund’s Secret Chest: The hidden chest is
actually located in the Mists. It cannot be sum-
moned while you are in a domain with closed
borders.

Limited Wish: This spell functions only if the
Dark Powers allow it to. The Dark Powers usually

 

 
