 

 
     
     

F aS th

grant the wish, but they always try to pervert its
intent. Thus, this spell rarely performs as desired
when cast in Ravenloft. When evil characters wish
for something dark and twisted, they have a 50%
chance of receiving their wish exactly as requested,
indicating that the Dark Powers deemed the wish’s
intent to be already corrupted.

 

A wish intended to allow you to escape from
Ravenloft, destroy a darklord, or otherwise violate
one of the basic tenets of the land simply fails. Any
wish used for evil requires a powers check.

Locate Creature: As locate object, butadarklord
can always attempt a Will save to avoid being
discovered by this spell. If the darklord succeeds at
this saving throw, he also instantly knows the
location of the person who cast it.

Locate Object: See Closed Domain Borders.
This spell cannot detect a subject on the other side
of a domain border, even if it is within the spell’s
normal range — or even within eyeshot.

Magic Jar: This spell undergoes disturbing
changes. If your host’s body is slain, your spirit does
not necessarily return to the magic jar. You must
succeed at a Will save or be bound to your host’s
corpse. If the save succeeds, the spell works nor-
mally. Otherwise, you become an undead monster
occupying the host’s body; add the “Undead” spe-
cial quality (see the Monster Manual). In addition,
you receive special powers depending on the previ-
ous HD of your host body:

 

Hit Dice Special Powers

4.or fewer None

5-7 Enervating touch (Su)
8-1 Fast healing (Ex)

12+ ‘Aura of fear (Su)

Enervating Touch (Su): This touch attack per-
forms just as the enervation spell.

Fast Healing (Ex
damage per round.

‘Aura of Fear (Su): This power performs as the
spell fear, except that the area affected is a sphere
surrounding you at all times, not a cone.

 

You recover 1 hit point of

These special powers are cumulative. Hence, a
12-HD monster would enjoy all three.

If the host’s corpse is not destroyed within 24
hours of death, it animates with your life force. If
the head or torso has been destroyed, you die.

Your original body also animates as an undead
creature under your control. This creature has no
Intelligence score and only half as many Hit Dice
as you had caster levels. The DM can choose the
specific type of undead creature created.

 

Lane oN

aes ONrusamend ae

 

 

 

Lastly, the life force of the host remains trapped
in the jar. This imprisoned life force should be
considered a ghost, and it may eventually learn to
reach out from its prison to avenge itself.

Destroying the receptacle usually kills the life
force within it but doesnot end the spell. When the
spell duration runs out your life force is still ex-
pelled from the host’s body but is unable to return
to your own body, becoming a ghost. Casting this
spell requires a powers check.

Mark of Justice: See bestow curse.

Maze: See Nondimensional Spaces.

Miracle: As limited wish.

Modify Memory: This spell can negate the
effects of a failed Fear or Horror save and can be
used to restore memories lost to failed Madness
saves. You either wipe the memory of the event
from thesubject’s mind oralter the subject’smemory
so that the horror of the situation is masked.

The spell can cause sinister effects as well. If
used to force a subject to relive a scene that was
originally cause for a Horror save, the subject acts
as though she were there. If the results of a previous
Horror save for that situation failed, then the
results of that failure may come back to haunt the
victim. Forexample, if the previous result had been
Aversion, the character again feels the need torun
in horror. If the previous Horror save succeeded,
the subject must make a new Horror save, witha +1
morale bonus for having survived the scene before.

Keep in mind that this spell cannot be used to
alter a subject’s personality or alignment. Even if a
good character is given the memories of a foul
villain, she continues to follow her conscience —
perhaps coming to believe that she has “reformed.”

 

 

 

Making a person relive a scene of horror al-
most certainly warrants a powers check.

Mordenkainen’s Faithful Hound: See Con-
juration (Summoning). The watchdog has the
Mists descriptor.

Mordenkainen’s Magnificent Mansion: See
Nondimensional Spaces.

Mount: See Conjuration (Summoning).

Neutralize Poison: See Closed Domain Borders.

Nightmare: If the victim is killed by the damage
dealtby this spell, she returns from death asa bastellus.
This creature is free willed but remembers nothing of
its mortal life, so it does not seek revenge. Casting
this spell requires a powers check.

Phantom Steed: See Conjuration (Summon-
ing). The steed has the Mists descriptor.

 
