2sonN,

<femul.

a = eee RL eee ae)

 

= de
ee nD

 

Planar Ally: See Conjuring (Calling).

Planar Ally, Greater: See Conjuring (Calling).

Planar Ally, Lesser: See Conjuring (Calling).

Planar Binding: As les:
Conjuring (Calling).

Planar Binding, Greater: As lesser planar bind-
ing. See Conjuring (Calling).

Planar Binding, Lesser: See Conjuring (Calling).
The called creature receives a +2 bonus on any attempts
to escape from the magic circle you have prepared for it.
Themethodsby whichacalled creature can try to escape
are listed in the spell description.

Plane Shift: See Teleportation. This spell can
transport you or another subject to a different
domain. To choose a specific domain as your des-
tination, you must have personally visited it at least
once. Ifyou do not specify a destination, youappear
in a random domain. You appear at a random
location within the targeted domain.

Polymorph: See Transmutation.

Polymorph Any Object: See Transmutation.

Power Word, Kill: Unless their bodies are
first destroyed, three days after being killed victims
killed by this spell automatically animate as wights
with HD equal to the victim. (Apply the wight
template from Ravenloft Gazetteer Volume II or
Savage Species.) These wights are not under your
control. Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Project Image: See Illusion (Shadow). The
duplicate is so real that it becomes partially tan-
gible; the image can manipulate objects with an
effective Strength of 1.

 

er planar binding. See

 

Protection from Energy: Ravenloft insulates
undead creatures from the influence of other planes.
Thus, the attacking undead creature suffers only
1d6 points of damage from positive energy, and if it
succeeds at a Fortitude save, it takes no damage
from the spell at all.

Protection from Evil: This spell works nor-
mally, but the DM should apply the applicable
deflection bonuses secretly, so as not to reveal the
moral alignment of evil attackers.

Protection from Good: As protection from euil.
Casting this evil spell does not require a powers check.

Prying Eyes: Ifa returning eye replays a scene
that would normally require you to make a Horror
save, you must still make the saving throw. How-
ever, your distance from the scene grants a +4
circumstance bonus on your save.

Prying Eyes, Greater: As prying eyes.

Raise Dead: This spell requires the deceased crea-
ture to make a Fortitude save at DC (30—caster level).
If the save succeeds, the spell performs normally. If the
creature fails its save, it animates as an undead creature
with HD equal to the subject’s character level. The DM
may choose the type of undead creature the subject
returns as, but this spell cannot create liches. The newly
created undead creature is free willed. Casting this spell
requires a powers check,

Ray of Enfeeblement: The spell’s duration is
doubled to 2 minutes/level. Casting this spell re-
quires a powers check.

Refuge: See Teleportation.

Reincarnate: In Ravenloft, this spell may
actually reincarnate a person as an undead crea-
ture, as the Dark Powers funnel the returning spirit
into a random corpse rather than a living animal.
To determine whether this occurs, the returning
spirit must make a Will save at DC (20 - caster
level). If the saving throw is successful, the spell
performs normally. If the save fails, the spirit re-
turns as an undead creature.

  

  

 

To determine the type of undead creature
created, roll on the table under the reincarnate spell
description in the D&D Player’s Handbook to de-
termine the species of the new incarnation, then
apply the “Undead” special quality. The undead
creature should have HD equal to the deceased
creature’s character level. Casting this spell re-
quires a powers check.

Remove Curse: Remove curse works poorly in
Ravenloft, where its duration is limited rather than
instantaneous. The subject of the spell must make
a successful Will save to be temporarily rid of a
curse, modified by the curse severity; see the bestow
curse listing for specific modifiers. The duration of
relief is only 10 minutes per caster level.

Remove Fear: This spell applies to Fear and
Horror saves as well as magical fear effects

Resurrection: As raise dead.

Rope Trick: See Nondimensional Spaces.

Scare: This spell can affect creatures with up
to7 HD. Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Scrying: See Divination (Scrying). Any crea-
ture in a different domain is considered to be on
another plane for the purposes of this spell.

Scrying, Greater: As scrying.

Searing Light: The Dread Realm gives certain
advantages toundead creatures. [In Ravenloft, undead
creatures can make a Will save for half damage.

Shadow Conjuration: See Illusion (Shadow).

  

 
