yy ee

 

 

 

Shadow Conjuration, Greater: See Illusion
(Shadow). Because shadow conjuration creates en-
tities from shadowstuff rather than drawing them
from other planes, this spell is not affected by the
normal limitations placed on summoning magic.

Shadow Evocation: Sce Illusion (Shadow).

Shadow Evocation, Greater: See Illusion
(Shadow).

Shadow Walk: This spell still enables you to
move from place to place as described in the
Player's Handbook. However, even though this
spell transports you to the brink of the Plane of
Shadow, the Mists prevent you from travelingeven
one step beyond theirclutches. Youcannotuse this
spell to cross closed domain borders or escape to
another plane.

Shapechange: See Transmutation.

Simulacrum: See Illusion (Shadow). Should
the simulacrum be destroyed, the shadowstuff
trapped within its melting snow body escapes and
immediately reforms as an uncontrolled shadow
with HD equal to your caster level.

Slay Living: As finger of death, but the victim
returns as a wight rather than a skeleton. Casting
this spell requires a powers check.

Soul Bind: If the focus gem is destroyed while
a soul is still trapped within it, the freed spirit
becomes an incorporeal undead creature (of the
DM's choice) with total HD equal to the deceased
creature's character level. This spirit is free willed.
Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Speak with Dead: Casting this spell requires a
powers check.

Spectral Hand: This spell’s duration is doubled
to 2 minutes per level. Casting this spell requires a
powers check.

Spell Turning: In the case of a resonating
field, a die roll of 98 to 100 normally sends both
spellcasters into the Mists, not another plane. If
you are in a domain with closed borders, both
spellcasters take 1d10 points of damage, then roll
again on the table until you receive a different
result. Both spellcasters take 1d10 additional points
of damage each time the dice roll results in a roll of
98 to 100.

Statue: See Transmutation.

Status: While this spell does not allow the
cleric to determine whether or nota friend affected
by this spell is controlled, mesmerized, charmed,
and so on, it reveals whether the subject is horri-
fied, diseased, or afflicted by a “natural” mental

problem (even one that is a result of a failed saving
throw).
Storm of Vengeance: See Weather.
Suggestion: See Enchantment, Mind-A ffect-

ing.

Suggestion, Mass: See Enchantment, Mind-
Affecting.

Summon Monster I-IX: See Conjuration
(Summoning).

Summon Nature’s Ally I-IX: See Conjura-
tion (Summoning).

Summon Swarm: See Conjuration (Summon-
ing).

Sunbeam: The light from this spell is consid-
ered equal to true sunlight. Therefore, in addition
to the normal damage dealt, it harms creatures
vulnerable to sunlight as if they were standing
outside on a clear day.

Sunburst: As sunbeam.

Symbol spells: As glyph of warding

Sympathy: See Detecting Alignment.

Teleport: See Teleportation. Should a “Mis-
hap” result in one or more characters taking enough
damage to reduce them to 0 or fewer hit points,
their bodies warp or merge to become a single,
twisted broken one. (Broken ones will be detailed
in Denizens of Dread; DMs without thataccessory
can use calibans instead.)

Teleport, Greater: See Teleportation. Some
areas of Ravenloft change quite often, so consider
thata “reliable description” of the target locale may
not be as reliable as it seems.

Teleport Object: See Ethereal. The teleported
object is merely shunted to the Near Ethereal. Any
creature capable of seeing into the Near Ethereal
(via spells, abilities, and so on) can see the object,
which remains in the same position relative to its
surroundings.

 

Teleportation Circle: See Teleportation.

Transport via Plants: See Closed Domain
Borders.

Trap the Soul: This spell works normally in
Ravenloft, with the following clarifications:

If casting the spell involves speaking the sub-
ject creature’s name, this must be the creature's
true name. A nickname, pseudonym, or alias does
not suffice, even if it is the name by which the
creature is most commonly known.

Conjuringspellsare unreliable in Ravenloft. If
youuse the “spell completion” option when casting

 

 
