   

this spell, the targeted creature receivesa +2 bonus
on its die rolls (including SR and/or Will save) to
resist.

See Extraplanar. Outsiders and elementals are
the only creatures you can demand a service from
upon freeing them.

Tree Shape: See Transmutation.

Tree Stride: See Closed Domain Borders.

True Resurrection: As raise dead.

 

 

True Seeing: This spell functions as described
in the D&D Player's Handbook, with the following
clarifications:

You can use this spell to see ethereal creatures
and resonance (see Ghosts in Chapter Five). Un-
less these objects have an obviously ghostly
appearance, however, you do not automatically
sense that they are ethereal.

The spell also states that the subject sees the
true form of polymorphed, changed, and trans-
muted things. In Ravenloft, this generally refers
only to changes created through spells or spell-like
powers, not supernatural or extraordinary abilities.
Thus, natural shapechangers such as vampires,
lycanthropes and doppelgangers always appear in
their current form, whatever their true form may
be.

 

The divine version of this spell allows the
subject todiscern only ethical alignment, not moral
alignment.

Unhallow: The effects of this spell stack with
the penalties applied by a sinkhole of evil. If you fix
aspell effect to the unhallow site, the effect lasts for
two years, not one (see Detecting Alignment).
Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Unholy Aura: You get a +1 bonus to the
effective spell level. Casting this spell requires a
powers check.

Unholy Blight: You get a +1 bonus to the
effective spell level. Casting this spell requires a
powers check.

Vampiric Touch: For every die of damage you
deal, the subject takes 1 point of permanent hit
point damage unless a cleric casts lesser restoration
on the subject within one day, restoration within
one week, or greater restoration within thirty days.

Three days after being killed by this spell, the
victim’s body animates as a fledgling vampire (or
vampiric spawn, if the victim had 4 or fewer HD)
unless the appropriate preventative measures are
taken. If you are present when this happens, the
new vampire must attempt a Will save. Failure

 

 

means that the creature falls under your control;
success means that it is free willed. If you are not
present when the vampire animates, it automati-
cally becomes free willed. A free-willed vampire

despises you and seeks to avenge itself. Casting this
spell requires a powers check.

Wail of the Banshee: This spell’s range is
extended to close (25 feet + 5 feet/level). Any
female humanoid (not necessarily an elf) killed by
this spell becomes a ghost with the frightful moan
special attack. The new spirit is free willed and
almost certainly tries to wreak vengeance upon
you. Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Wish: As limited wish.

Word of Chaos: See Abjuration, Extraplanar.
A creature banished to another domain cannot
come within sight of you for one full day.

Word of Recall: See Teleportation.

New Spells

Many of these spells are the coveted posses-
sions of a handful of Ravenloft’s most dangerous
spellcasters. They are available to any spellcasters
who discover them, however.

 

 
 
 

Bestow Ancient Curse
Transmutation
Level: Clr 7
Components: V, DF, XP
This spell invokes a curse that can persist
through generations. It functions as bestow divine
curse (below), except that the curse leaps to the
subject’s descendents if the subject dies. If you
include an escape (redemption) clause, then the
emo sessimillare Seyre eure ivntellst ie
you do not include a redemption clause, the ancient
curse persists for a number of generations equal to
one-third your caster level.
XP Cost: 2,000.

 

  

Bestow Divine Curse

Transmutation

Level: Clr 7

Components: V, M, DF

Casting Time: | full round

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 Ft/level)

Target: One creature

This spell invokes a powerful curse of up to

lethal severity. It functions as bestow curse, except
the curse can be relieved only by a miracle or wish
spell. A cleric of the same faith as you can remove
the curse with an atonement spell. The subject must

 
