 
   

  

have committedan Unholy Act (see Powers Checks
above) against your faith to be affected by a divine
curse. Youmustannounce the curse in the presence
of the subject and must include an escape (redemp-
tion) clause for it to take effect.

Casting this spell requires a powers check.
Material Component: A tiny silver gong.

Borrowed Cime
Necromancy

Level: Cir 5, Wiz/Sor 5, Blk 4
Components: V, M

Casting Time: 3 days

Range: Personal

Target: You

Duration: See text

Saving Throw: None

Spell Resistance: No

Some spellcasters are willing to subject them-
selves to the horrors of undeath to ensure that they
can complete some vital task. This spell allows you
to animate yourself as one of the undead to com-
plete sucha task. In some ways, this spell resembles
a weaker version of the ritual used to create liches.

Casting this spell requires three days of ritual
fasting and purification ceremonies. During the
casting, you declare a specific task that you must
complete. This task must have a specific, attain-
able goal. Completing a craft project, guarding a
structure as long as specific inhabitants remain, or
slaying a specific creature are acceptable goals;
esoteric goals such as counting the stars or ponder-
ing philosophy are not. You cannot cast this spell
again until you complete your current task.

If you die before completing the named task,
you rise again 1d6 + 1 days later as a 3rd-rank
ancient dead. If your body is destroyed, you return
as a 3rd-rank ghost.

Once undead, you must work toward complet-
ing your task. Each day you do not actively work
toward completing your goal, you permanently
lose | level. Once you complete your goal (and thus
cannot work toward it), you automatically lose 1
level per day. When you reach 0 levels, you are
destroyed. Once destroyed, you cannot be returned
to life by any means short of a miracle or wish.

Casting this spell requires a powers check.

Note: Characters who employ this spell should
take care not to offend the forces tharrule Ravenloft.
While it does afford some modicum of free will, a
character who takes advantage of this spell’s power
is tempting the arcane forces that make it possible.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ma eer mnes

Those few revenants who do test the limits often
find out in short order that they would just as soon
attend to their original purpose, for the Dark Pow-
ers do not take kindly to those who try their
patience.

Borrowed Cime, Greater
Necromancy
Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 7
This spell functions as borrowed time, but you
return as a 4th-rank ancient dead or ghost.

Borrowed Cime, Lesser
Necromancy
Level: Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 3, Blk 2
This spell functions as borrowed time, but you
return as a 2nd-rank ancient dead or ghost.

feign Undeath
Necromancy

Level: Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 5
Components: V, S, M

Casting Time: | action

Range: Touch

Target: Living creature touched
Duration: 2 minutes/level
Saving Throw: Will save negates
Spell Resistance: Yes

With this spell, you may deal your target with
the physical aspects of azombie. The subject trans-
forms to resemble a shambling corpse. Its flesh
shrivels and its skin discolors, making it appear to
have been dead for several days. Its joints stiffen,
causing it to move with the jerking movements of
a zombie. Undead creatures react to the subject as
though it has the Cold One feat (see Chapter
Two). The subject’s clothes and gear remain un-
changed.

The subject loses any Dexterity bonus. Stan-
dard actions become full-round actions, movement
rates reflect the rate for zombies in the Monster
Manual and the subject cannot move and attack in
the same round. The “zombie” does not need to
breathe and is immune to all death spells, magical
death effects and fear and horror effects. The sub-
ject is also affected as if by delay poison for the
duration of this spell. The subject cannot feel pain,
but takes damage normally if attacked.

The subject isstill a living creature and cannot
be turned, rebuked or affected by spells or effects
that specifically target undead creatures.

Casting this spell requires a powers check.

 
