 

combined HD cannot exceed your caster level. If
you choose to entomb any creatures, the tomb ward
animates themas Ist-rank ancient dead if the curse
is triggered, using them as guardians.

It is customary to inscribe the specific effect of
the tomb ward on the entrance of the tomb as a
warning, though this isnot necessary to the casting
of the spell.

Casting this spell requires a powers check, plus
a powers check for each humanoid buried alive.

Zone of Deception

Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]

Level: Cir 2

This spell creates an area that prevents sub-

jects within range from telling the truth. As zone of
truth, except that creatures within the emanation
immediately become aware that they cannot in-
tentionally speak the truth. Creatures are not
required to speak and can phrase their statements
as they choose, but every statement they make
must bea lie. Questions, suppositions and exclama-
tions are not statements and thus are not affected.

Altered Magic Items

The Dark Powershold magic itemsin Ravenloft
to the same changes and limitations as the spells
above. If a magic item has a power that duplicates
a spell effect, it suffers the same alterations as that
spell. This section details a few additional changes
that apply only to magic items.

Special Abilities
Any aspect of a D&D Dungeon Master's Guide

special ability not listed here performs normally in
Ravenloft.

 

 

Disruption: Undead creatures get a +2 bonus
on their Fortitude save.

Etherealness: See Ethereal.

Ghost Touch: This ability performs normally
in Ravenloft. As a note, fusing material objects to
their own ethereal resonance creates these items.

Spell Storing: Storing a spell incurs the same
chance of failing a powers check as casting it.

 

Unholy: Crafting these items requires a pow-
ers check.

Intelligent Items
Intelligent magic items can be a powerful
source of evil in Ravenloft. Many evil artifacts
possess at least some manner of rudimentary cun-
ning, allowing them to appeal to the base nature of

 

 

their possessors. Evil items in Ravenloft get a +5
bonus to their Ego score. If an evil item succeeds at
dominating its possessor, there is a 50% chance
that the item presents itself to the nearest darklord,
seeking a more worthy owner.

Cursed Items

When someone creates a magic item while
under the influence of powerful emotions, or with
dark intentions — as with a vengeful wizard who
crafts a weapon to slay those who wronged her —
she may unwittingly lay a curse into her own
creation. The DM should judge the character's
intent just as if she had crafted a curse of vengeance
(see Curses, earlier in this chapter); in this case, the
character lays the curse through an item, not words.

Cursed items are powerful and dangerous in
Ravenloft. The severity of an item’s curse grants an
unholy bonus on all its saving throws:

  

Curse Severity Saving Throw Bonus
Embarrassing 0

Frustrating +1

Troublesome +2

Dangerous 8

Lethal +6

Also, a new form of curse is common in
Ravenloft:

Power for a Price: The item does not have a
set number of charges. Instead, the user can build
up charges by using the item to perform a specific
act. This act — the “price” paid for the item’s
powers — is typically related to the effect of the
desired power and always requires a powers check.
Anexample isa sword with powers that can be used
only after its blade has taken a humanoid life.

In some cases, these items may have reduced
effects. As an example, a cursed gauntlet might be
enchanted to cast remove disease with a touch.
Rather than simply eliminating the disease, the
cursed gauntlet draws the sickness into itself. The
next time the gauntlet is used, its touch acts as a
contagion spell. The gauntlet cannot be used to
remove disease again until the disease has been
“discharged” into a victim.

Magic Items in Ravenloft

Using any item that simply mirrors a specific
spell effect (as with scrolls, wands and items such as
brooms of flying) warrants a powers check just as if
the spell had been cast. This section lists additional
magic items from the D&D Dungeon Master's Guide
that suffer specific changes.

 

s

 

 
