  

As true seeing.
Hand of Glory: Crafting this item requires a
powers check. In Ravenloft, these items can be
made only from the hands of executed criminals
Hand of the Mage: In Ravenloft, these items can
be crafted from the hands of elven wizards or hags.
Helm of Opposite Alignment: The involun-
tary alignment shift caused by this item requires a
Madness save.
Helm of Telepathy:
Affecting
Helm of Teleportati:
Heward’s Handy Haversack: See
Nondimensional Spaces.
Holy Avenger: Darklords get a +4 insight bo-
nus on their Intelligence checks when detecting the
disruption caused by a paladin wielding this weapon

 

ee Enchantment, Mind-

 

See Teleportation.

Horn of Valhalla: The conjured barbarians
are always evil. They obey the commands of the
horn’s possessor in merciless, bloodthirsty fashion.
If the barbarians do not have any opponents to
fight, they gladly turn on each other.

Iron Flask: Crafting this item requires a powers
check. Captured creatures are free to act as they wish
after their hour of service has elapsed. These crea-
tures are usually highly hostile toward the flask’s user.

Life-Drinker: Crafting or using this item re-
quires a powers check.

Mace of Blood: The involuntary alignment
ift caused by this item requires a Madness save.
Crafting this item requires a powers check.

 
 

Mace of Smiting: Crafting this item requires a
powers check

Mask of the Skull: As finger of death. Crafting
or using this item requires a powers check.

Medallion of Thought Projection: See Mind-
Affecting

Medallion of Thoughts: See Mind-Affecting.

Mirror of Life Trapping: As imprisonment.
Crafting this item requires a powers check.

Mirror of Mental Prowes e Mind-A ffect-
ing, Divination (Scrying), Teleportation. The
mirror cannot answer questions in Ravenloft.

Mirror of Opposition: Crafting this item re-
quires a powers check

Necklace of Strangulation: Crafting this item
requires a powers check.

Nine Lives Stealer: Crafting this item or using
its death-dealing ability requires a powers check.

Orb of Storms: See Weather.

  

 

 

 
