  

Periapt of Foul Rotting: Crafting this item
requires a powers check.
Periapt of Health: This item offers only a +4
luck bonus against supernatural di
Phylactery of Faithfulness: This item does
not function in Ravenloft. The Dark Powers de-
mand that mortals rely on their own judgment.

ses.

 

Pipes of the Sewers: See Enchantment.

Portable Hole: See Nondimensional Spaces
and bag of holding.

Ring Gates: See Teleportation.

Ring of Djinni Calling: See Conjuration (Call-
ing).

Robe of Stars: See Astral. The wearer cannot
use this item to travel to the Astral Plane.

Rod of Alertness: This item cannot detect
moral alignment, but it can detect harmful intent.

Rod of Rulership: See Enchantment. Using
this item to command undead creatures or evil
outsiders to do your bidding requires a powers
check.

Rod of Security: In Ravenloft, the “pocket
paradise” created by this powerful item is consid-
ered a tiny domain. The Dark Powers immediately
seek out a suitable darklord from among the crea-
tures that enter the space. When a darklord is
chosen, the domain becomes fixed; creatures can
remain within its borders indefinitely. Unfortu-
nately, the “paradise” also slowly warps to suit the
corrupt nature of its lord. The rod of security does
not function in domains with closed borders.
Darklords cannot enter the “pocket paradise.”

Rod of Withering: Crafting or using this item
requires a powers check.

 

Scarab of Death: Crafting this item requires a
powers check.

Slaying Arrow: Crafting this item requires a
powers check.

Stone of Controlling Earth Elementals: See
Conjuration (Summoning).

Sun Blade: As sunbeam.

Sword of Life Stealing: Crafting or using this
item requires a powers check.

 

Sword of the Planes: Ravenloft lurks in the
Deep Ethereal, so this weapon carries a +3 bonus.
Trident of Fish Command: See Enchantment.

 

Unguent of Timelessness: This oil can be
used to preserve the flesh of corporeal undead.

Well of Many Worlds: This item does not
function in Ravenloft.

Altered Minor Artifacts

Book of Vile Darkness: In addition to the
effects already listed, an evil divine spellcaster who
reads this book gains just enough experience points
to gain two experience levels. Any good character
who reads the unholy text must make a DC 15
Madness save in place of the experience point
bonus listed in the D&D Dungeon Master's Guide.

Sphere of Annihilation: Using the sphere to
destroy a living creature requires a powers check.
Casting gate on a sphere of annihilation cannot
tear open a planar rift; the sphere merely vanishes
in a massive explosion, dealing 2d6 x 10 points of
damage to everything within a 180-foot radius.

Staff of the Magi: This artifact’s plane shift
power does not function in Ravenloft. Attempting
to use the power does not drain any charges.

Talisman of Pure Good: To be considered
“exceptionally pure in thoughtand deed,” the wielder
must be Innocent. If a victim swallowed by the rift
was a darklord, he or she may have prepared contin-
gencies that allow an eventual return from death

Talisman of Ultimate Evil: To be considered
“exceptionally foul and perverse,” the wielder must
be a darklord or an evil outsider. Using this item
requires a powers check.

Major Artifacts

Major artifacts possess amazing powers far be-
yond the capabilities of mortal magic. At the DM’s
discretion, the abilities and spell effects created by
majorartifacts may remain unchanged in Ravenloft.
Major artifacts may even possess the power to pass
through closed domain borders or burst free of
Ravenloft’s clutches entirely. However, evil, intel-
ligent major artifacts may not want to leave.

 

 

  

 
