| fave been drowning in the dang dreams of yameless deities. For five years, | floated in oblivion, but not
| fave escaped the trap set hy my tormentors.

My years of “enile” fade heey costly. This fahoratory, AVerqts, my entire fingdom, all are crdmbling from
eolect. Not oye of my stbjects Mas fit tv asshime my throne. | have alddays fyoty this, even Used it to my advantage.
My subjects are little better thay medling brats. Without my firm hand, they Wotld gladly slaughter each offer
to claim my crown. Yet, not one of them Understands Wfat it is to hear a croln’s Weight.

My sop, Irif, as yo more fit thay they. He had too mlch of fis mother in him. He preached Weafgess and
called it mercy. He offered martyrdom and called it a son's {ove. Yet, tifen | demonstrated a father's love for
fis son — a fing’s (ove for cotntry — fe called it tyraygy.

Inif tas to he my heir, my legacy, Yer, he yeder dinderstood difat it is to he a rbler of men — the terrible
respopsitility. He Mould fave allowed rebels to slaqder him in the streets; he Would have ignored the foes at
vbr orders. His mercy Mould fave collapsed the fingdom.

That is hy | Filled him. | fad to exechte my soy to iphold the fingdom. But Withodt Inif, 1 Had yo legacy.
| as forced tv continie my rile indefinitely.

My powers are vast. If | could only escape this prisoy of mists, | could give Irif etd life — a second
ofance to prove himself a Worthy heir, But here, my tormentors, the implacable forces that shape this realm,
deny me the greatest gifts of my intellect.

Jam hatte hy the memory of my soy, Even ay | record these Words, Irif’s shade denies that my tormentors
obey exist. He claims they are my oly creation, imaginary foes | have conjured dp to blame for my oly failings.

Bit Irif does qot fod What | Fold. As allways, he forgets that | am the father and he the child. | have spent
five years focfed in darfyess, at one With the land. 1 could qot act; | could got even thing: hit | could listen,
J could fear the living, the dead and the land itself: Buried deep Within that cacophony, | could fear the difispers
of my formentors.

J remember little and understand fess of fat | heard, Bat understand those Whispers | will; | must yot forget
ifese secrets, su dearly both. 1 fave stoley 4 glimpse at Ayuiiledge my tormentors do got Wish me to have,
J pol Gyudl that there are mysteries in this World that eden my tormentors do got understand.

Ido pot yet comprehend What | have learned. | possess mere slivers of the frit, Hoeven, itis enough simply
{0 Gud that these mysteries enist and that they confoind my tormentors.

The sulition may require years of labor; it may require decades, Even if it tafes cemtiries, | Will sulve this
plzale, My tormentors may rok me of my freedom and my magic, Hit they cannot steal my defiance, yor cay they
reduce my endless simply of time.

My tormentors will never fet me go free. | dnderstand that poll. Bar Whey | understand this mystery, | will
each my tormentors that they are gor the masters of my fate.

J ill throw off their sfacfles, | Will fave Inif bach.

J Will teacf my tormentors to fear.

— Azalin Rex, Wizard-King of Darkon
Laboratory notes, entry #27.9.755.3

 
