 

 

his chapter describes most of the known
domains of Ravenloft. Particular atten-
tion is devoted to those domains that
0 might be homelands for Ravenloft PCs.

The catalogue that follows is by no
means comprehensive. Other domains almost cer-
tainly exist, and as the ages roll on, the Land of
Mists continue to grow like a creeping cancer,
spawning new lands brimming with new night-
mares.

 

 

 

Craveling the Dread Realms

Journeying from one domain of Ravenloft to
another — and even within the bounds of a do-
main — can be a perilous and maddening
undertaking. The Land of Mists has its share of
physical dangers, including treacherous terrainand
waters, inclement weather and wild predators.
These hazards aside, overland travel often involves
risks that are subtler, though just as hindering and
frightening.

Travelers learn quickly that in the embrace of
the Mists, time and distance can be meaningless.
When surrounded by the roiling vapors, a dreadful

 

numbing sensation settles over a traveler’s percep-
tions, a chill of the mind rather than the body. The

passage of time is difficult to discern, and space
seems to ebb and flow around the traveler. Without
open sky or landmarks, navigation is essentially
impossible. Modern magnetic compasses spin in
sluggish circles or stand motionless. Many travelers
emerge from the Mists as if from a nightmare,
convinced they have been trekking through the
vapors for mere minutes or many tedious months.
Inevitably, their perceptions differ widely from the
reality; most journeys through the Mists take a few
days, though almost any stretch of time is plausible.

For these reasons, travel between the Core,
clusters and islands is problematic. Since the dawn
of history, the Vistani have traditionally served as
solemn guides for Mist travelers. The gypsies seem
to understand the roiling mysteries of the Mists
intuitively, and though the route they follow may
be longand arduous, they usually bring their charges
safely to their proper destination, Unfortunately,
securing such reliable passage has a hefty price
Merely tracking down a Vistani caravan and then
convincing the gypsies to consider one’s request
are formidable tasks in themselves. The Vistani
usually charge whatever they feel the traveler can
afford, whether coin or valued possessions. Often
they require their customer to complete an unfath-

 
