g

omable and dangerous task in return for their
services.

Other options do exist, however. As contact
between the various domains has improved, per-
ceptive explorers and merchants have ascertained
that travel through the Mists may be unpredict-
able, but it is far from random. Entering the Mists
along a particular bearing in a particular domain
leads to the same distant location ... more often
than not. The consistency of this strategy is less
than perfect, however. These so-called Mistways
can lead hikers, caravans or vessels astray from
their intended destination. For example, journey-
ing due south from Hazlan and into the Mists
usually takes a traveler to southeastern Pharazia.
Occasionally, however, that same Mistway leads to
eastern Vorostokov or northern Sri Raji. Particu-
larly insidious Mistways ground seagoing vessels
suddenly on dry land; one route strands ships that
sail the Nocturnal Sea in Har’Akir’s sands. Al-
though many Mistways function in both directions,

  

i Charted Mistways

When a Mistway fails to deliver travelers to the expected location, it is said to have drifted. Most
Mistways have moderate reliability, drifting 30% of the time. Mistways with poor reliability drift 50% of

i

the time, while exceedingly rare Mistways ha

 

 

some do not. Canny travelers never assume that
reversing their route delivers them safely home.
Despite these troublesome qualities, however, those
who brave the Mists have begun to studiously table
the Mistways, recording the domains they link as
well as their reliability.

Even journeys through the open countryside
of a domain have their own dilemmas. While
distances that separate settlements or sites are
normally stable, some travelers have found that the
landscape plays with their minds in devilish fash-
ion. A woodsman might discover that a journey
that normally takes only a few hours, one that he
has made dozens of times in the past, suddenly
necessitates an arduous trek of a week or more.
Such strangeness has a tendency to manifest at the
worst possible moment, such as when ravenous
horrors worry a traveler’s steps. Most folk believe
that this phenomenon is a matter of perception,
perhaps a fugue brought on by an encounter with
the Mists. Surely, the land itself could not be
changing beneath their feet?

xcellent reliability, drifting only 10% of the time. When.

a Mistway drifts, it usually leads travelers to a random location in Ravenloft, though a handful of Mistways.
have a perplexing habit of consistently drifting to the same point.

In recent years, explorers and mariners have identified the Mistways listed below. Conferring names
on known Mistways has become a popular practice, as it allows navigators to refer to the routes.

unambiguously.

The Bleak Road: Southern Barovia — Northern Vorostokov (Poor Reliability, Two-Way).

The Emerald Stream: Northern Sea of Sorro\
The Heretic’s Egres
Two-Way).

 

 

— Eastern Sri Raji (Moderate Reliability, Two-Way).
Southwestern G’Henna

          

“Central Darkon (Moderate Reliability,

The Jackal’s Ruse: East-Central Nocturnal Sea — Western Har’Akir (Moderate Reliability, One-

Way).

Leviathan’s Clutches: West-Central Sea of Sorrows — Saragoss (Excellent Reliability, One-Way).
The Path of Innocence: Southern Valachan — Northern Odiare (Poor Reliability, One-Way).
The Road of a Thousand Secrets: Southern Hazlan — Southeastern Pharazia (Moderate Reliability,

Two-Way).

The Shattered Passage: Southern Kartakass — N

Way).

lortheastern Bluetspur (Moderate Reliability, One-

The Shrouded Way: Northwestern Darkon — Southern Paridon (Moderate Reliability, Two-Way).
Via Corona: Northeastern Darkon — Eastern Nidala (Moderate Reliability, Two-Way).
The Wake of the Loa: Northwestern Nocturnal Sea — Northern Souragne (Moderate Reliability,

Two-Way).

The Way of Venomous Tears: Southwestern Sea of Sorrows — Northeastern Rokushima Taiyoo

(Poor Reliability, Two-Way).

apis
2

 

how

y

“wean

te

=

we

:

 
