 
 
   
   

Domain format

The domain descriptions in this chapter ad-
here to the format outlined below.

Cultural Level: The Cultural Level of a do-
main describes the degree of technological and
social advancement that dominates the local soci-
ety. This in turn dictates what kinds of goods and
services can be obtained in the domain. Some
domains may have more than one Cultural Level
because of or an unusual society. See Chapter
One for descriptions of Cultural Levels and Chap-
ter Two for guidelines on how to implement them.

Landscape: Each domain has an ecology rat-
ing, which determines how certain summoning
spells function (see Chapter Three). Appropriate
climate and terrain categories referenced in the
D&D Dungeon Master’s Guide and Monster Manual
are also included. The bulk of this section provides
a description of the domain’s topography, vegeta-
tion, bodies of water, climate, architecture and
other notable features.

 

   

Major Settlements: The most importantsettle-
ments in the domain are listed in alphabetical
order with their populations. Assets and gold piece
limits can be derived using the town ratings pre-
sented in Chapter 4 of the D&D Dungeon Master's
Guide. Other settlements may exist in large do-
mains but generally are of insignificant size.

The Folk: The domain’s approximate total
population is given, with a breakdown by race.
Unless otherwise noted, “dwarves” are hill dwarves,
“elves” are high elves, “gnomes” are rock gnomes,
and “halflings” are lightfoot halflings. “Other” in-
dicates a mixture of standard nonhuman races
(calibans, dwarves, elves, gnomes, half-elves, half-
Vistani and halflings) that are not explicitly cited,
as well as a smattering of living, intelligent mon-
sters that can pass for human (such as lycanthropes
and doppelgangers). Undead are not included in
population statistics, except in special cases; nei
ther are full-blooded Vistani. Other special
populations may be listed if they are significant
(suchas the goblyns of Forlorn). The languages and
religions of the domain are both listed in descend-
ing order of popularity. The official or dominant
language(s) and religion(s), ifany, are labeled with
an asterisk. The rest of this section describes the
physical appearance of native humans, local dress,
and the general demeanor and customs of the
domain’s inhabitants.

The Law: This section includes the domain’s
form of government, its current ruler, and a de-

 

SO

 

 

5

t
t
7

\

C= corwcs cs <s i

 
 

“@hat Domain Hre You From?”

The term “domain” is used throughout
this chapter for the sake of convenience. Here
it refers to an area in the Land of Mists that is
controlled by an imprisoned darklord. It is
worth noting, however, that the word does not
carry the same meaning for Ravenloft’s inhab-
itants. Although they may refer toa particular
domain asa such, folk may also call ita realm,
barony, kingdom, nation and so forth. Con-
versely, some domains are regarded merely as
wild or haunted regions without well-defined
borders ot any political identity.

It is essential to remember that the na-
tives of Ravenloft are “inside the black box.”
Unlike you, gentle reader, they do not have
the privilege of perusing a book that presents
the truth about their world. They aren’t aware
that the geographical and political divisions of
their world are enforced by faceless, menacing
powers. They don’t understand that their real-
ity operates according to principles that would
be deemed mad on other worlds. And they
certainly don’t use such terms as “domain,”
“darklord,” or “Ravenloft,” at least in the same
sense that Ravenloft players and DMs do.

 

 

scription of how fear order is maintained. Not
all domains have a centralized authority, and some
have no formal government at all.

Trade and Diplomacy: This section lists the
domain’s important resources, including foodstuffs,
raw materials, crafted items and other more un-
usual assets, such as knowledge or culture. The
names of local coin denominations, if any, are
listed here as well. A description of the domain’s
relationships with other domains follows, includ-
ing political, military and economic alliances and
rivalries.

Realm Magic Rating: The magic rating given
to a realm usually shows a range of the most
appropriate rating for that area. The magic rating
may determine how likely it is that spellcasters
exist in or hail from within that domain as well as
the availability of spells and magic items and the
frequency of supernatural foes encountered.

Characters: This section provides guidelines
for designing characters native to the domain. The
classes, skills and feats that are listed here are

 

SG

eae

ee
