 

   

particularly appropriate for the domain’s inhabit-
ants; all are drawn from either the D&D Player's
Handbook or Chapter Two in this book. The skills
Knowledge (geography) and Knowledge (local)
are usually appropriate selections for characters,
regardless of domain. Feat “derivatives” refers to
those feats that have the cited feat as.a prerequisite.
For instance, “Power Attack (plus derivatives)”
includes Power Attack itself as well as Cleave,
Improved Bull Rush, Sunder and Great Cleave.
These classes, skills and feats are only suggestions;

 

there are no absolute restrictions on the options

available to Ravenloft characters.
Che Core

he Core is the most densely populated

and well-traveled region in the Land of

Mists. There are more known domains

O within the Core than there are beyond

it, lending weight to its standing as the

veritable center of the world. It is a rugged, temper-

ate land characterized by both bustling villages and

trackless wilderness. The Balinok Mountains are

the principal geographic feature of the Core, run-

ning north to south across the center of the

continent. The mysterious Shadow Rift, a yawning

chasm filled with black fog, interrupts the Balinoks
near the center of the Core. The Core’s frontiers
are defined to the north and south by the Mists, to
the east by the Nocturnal Sea, and to the west by
the Sea of Sorrows.

Although the landscape varies from domain to
domain in the Core, some generalizations about
the continent as a whole can be made. To the east
of the Balinoks, densely forested river valleys and
floodplains dominate, with most waterways flow-
ing toward the Sea of Sorrows. West of the
mountains, sweeping grasslands stretch out on an
upland plateau to the shores of the Nocturnal Sea.
The temperate climate has a regular cycle of sea-
sons, though weather extremes are common in
many domains. The Core is a region of both pros-
perity and misery, where a host of tyrants skulk in
their dark manses and plot endlessly against one
another. The villages hum with thriving com-
merce and intrigue, while cunning predators, both
natural and aberrant, stalk the wilds.

Barovia
Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Mountains). Straddling the loftiest

E

aie In felmuatanal oh

 
