   

reaches of the Balinok Mountains, Barovia (ba-
RO-vi-a) is a harsh, rural domain held in the grip
of tyranny and superstition. Its landscape is domi-
nated by the Balinoks, in particular by the twin
snow-capped peaks of Mounts Baratok and Ghakis.
The mountains run like a craggy spine down the
center of the realm, spreading east and west to
include the rugged hills on either side of the range.
The Balinoks within Baroviaare particularly treach-
erous, characterized by jagged outcroppings and
sheer cliffs. Travel is made all the more perilous by
the ice and snow that choke mountain passes nine
months out of the year.

‘The narrow valleys that cut the slopes of the
Balinoks widen to the east and west. Crystalline
mountain streams quickly transform into broad,
mighty rivers that wind their way through the
thickly forested dales. Numerous vital waterways
begin their journey across the Core high in the
Barovian Balinoks—the Gundar, Luna and Nharov
Rivers to the west and the Ivlis and Saniset Rivers
tothe east. With the exception of the upper reaches
of Mounts Baratok and Ghakis, ancient forests,
broken only occasionally by mossy meadows, domi-
nate the domain. At night, hulking wolves stalk
the woods, and the skies swarm with huge, screech-
ing bats. Lake Zarovich, one of the largest freshwater
bodies in the Core, is nestled between Mounts
Baratok and Ghakis, along the Old Svalich Road.
This highway is the sole link between the eastern
and western Core south of the Shadow Rift. Thus,
despite Barovia’s forbidding landscape, a surprising
number of merchants and pilgrims travel through
the realm each summer, urgently crossing the
Balinoks before the Old Svalich becomes impass-
able again in late autumn.

Most buildings in Barovia are constructed of
brick and dense timber thatis plastered and painted
deep russet or light dun. Many homes and shops are
adorned with rows of mineral-flecked stones set
into the plaster. The thatched rooftops are steep
and set with tiny, leaden rose windows in the
gables. In the spring, window boxes overflow with
vivid flowers, and harvest time brings pumpkin
lanterns, intended to keep the minions of evil at
bay. One of the realm’s most remarkable features is
the ring of perpetual fog that surrounds the village
of Barovia. Although Barovia’s winters are long
and brutal, the remainder of the year is mild,
characterized by gentle precipitation and sun-
dappled days.

 

Major Settlements: Barovia (pop. 500), Krezk
(pop. 2,000), Immol (pop. 1,600), Teufeldorf (pop.
3,500), Vallaki (pop. 1,500), Zeidenburg (pop.
4,600).

The Folk: Population —27,700. Humans 98%,
Half-Vistani 1%, Other 1%. Languages — Balok*,
Luktar, Vaasi, Sithican, Forfarian, Thaani. Reli-
gions — the Morninglord*, Ezra, Hala.

The two dominant human ethnic groups are
the Barovians and the Gundarakites. Both groups
tend toward thick, stocky builds with broad shoul-
ders and wide hips. Skin tones run from pale
olive-tan to light brown. Dark hair and eyes are
typical, the former ranging from light chestnut to
nearly jet-black, the latter from pale hazel to deep
brown. Men grow their hair to a medium length,
generally to just above the shoulder. Women wear
their hair long, with younger women frequently
braiding their locks. Most men wear thick, droop-
ing mustaches, though beards are common only
among younger men. Barovians and Gundarakites
also dress in a similar manner. Men wear loose
white shirts, embroidered sheepskin vests, and
dark breeches. Women wear blouses and long skirts
and cover their heads with kerchiefs. Barovian
women favor black, gray and dark brown colors and
wear the kerchief only when married. Gundarakite
women dress in muted, natural colors. They favor
yellows, greens and blues, and wear the kerchief
only when unattached.

Despite their physical similarities, Barovian-
Gundarakite animosity runs deep. Since Barovia
annexed Gundarak when that realm’s duke was
assassinated nearly twenty years ago, Gundarakites
have become the second-class citizens of Barovia.
Harassment and violence against Gundarakites is
on the rise, and as local militias tighten control of
Gundarakite movements and activities, the
Gundarakites have begun to respond with sporadic
resistance

The Vistani also have a strong presence in
Barovia, due in no small part to their enigmatic
alliance with Barovia’s ruler, Count von Zarovich.
The gypsies move with relative freedom through
the realm, protected by the count himself. Two
other notable ethnic groups are found exclusively
in the southern village of Immol. The fair-skinned,
redheaded Forfarians are descended from natives
from the haunted land of Forlorn to the south. The
Thaani, who exhibit a staggering variety in their
physical features, are said to be the descendents of

 

 
