 
    

tween Gundarakites and the Barovian occupation.
A growing resistance movement led by young
Gundarakite firebrand Ardonk Szerieza is fanning
the flames of resentment and bitterness.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
corn, turnips, cabbage, potatoes, plums, sunflow-
ers, grapes, goats, sheep, chickens, trout, pike,
sausage, spirits, timber, iron, salt. Coinage — wolf-
fang (gp), raven-claw (sp), rat-tooth (cp).

Although itis not formally isolationist, Barovia
has limited contact with other realms. The rustic
character of the land, combined with the count’s
reclusive and tyrannical nature, does little tostimu-
late outside interest in the realm. Trade alliances
between merchants in Barovia, Kartakass and
Invidia are not unheard of, however. Despite the
distance between their realms, it is widely believed
that Strahd and Azalin Rex, king of Darkon, de-
spise one another.

Realm Magic Rating: Barovia’s magic rating
is 3. Despite this, few wizards hail from this land.
There are few opportunities for those wishing to
study magic to doso in Barovia, where a significant
portion of the populace is illiterate. The people of
Barovia also have an effect on this as they view any
magic not of the church with grave suspicion. In
some areas of Barovia, the rating is actually closer
to 2 than 3

Characters: Classes — clerics, fighters, rang-
ers, rogues, sorcerers. Skills — Climb, Craft
(blacksmithing, carpentry, weaponsmithing),
Knowledge (monster lore), Profession (brewer,
farmer, fisher, herdsman), Sense Motive, Use Rope,
Survival. Feats — Blind-Fight, Ethereal Empathy,
Lunatic, Skill Focus (Knowledge [monster lore]),
Voice of Wrath, Weapon Focus (longsword).

Borca

Cultural Level: Chivalric (8).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forest,
Hills and Mountains). Borca (BOR-ka) is a beau-
teous domain scarred by betrayal and ruthlessness.
The domain lies along the northwestern edge of
the Balinok Mountains, in the rolling dales that
stretch out beyond the icy crags of Mount Gries.
Borca is a green, fertile land blanketed with wild
flowers throughout the spring and summer. An-
cient, verdant forests cover much of the domain,
overgrown with tangled brambles and twining ivy.
The trees and shrubs are heavy with nuts and fruits,
and the ground is blanketed by spongy little toad-
stools. Most of these morsels, however, ooze with

 

fay remy Chapter four oe aes}

aimee ee >. 718 -

 

  
 

 

sweet-smelling toxins, anotorious feature of Borcan
foodstuffs fortunately betrayed by a telltale pur-
plish tinge. The domain is also known for its
geothermal activity; hot springs bubble up from the
ground everywhere, spewing steam and sulfurous
fumes into the air. The Lunaand Vasha Rivers flow
gently east through the realm, fed by the crystalline
snowmelt of the Balinoks.

Homes and shops in Borca are broad, massive
buildings of plastered and whitewashed brick. The
gabled rooftops are shingled in thin, charcoal-gray
wood and topped with slim, knobby spires. Wooden
trim of dark green or blue, carved with stylized
vines and mushrooms, graces the doors and win-
dows. Small, white marble statues of the goddess
Ezra stand serenely at the entrances of many homes.
The smooth stone streets of villages are narrow,
shaded by the overhanging upper floors of build-
ings. Borca hasa temperate climate, leaning toward
severe winters and cool, pleasant summers.

Major Settlements: Levkarest (pop. 8,500),
Lechberg (pop. 5,500), Sturben (pop. 2,000), Von
Ziyden (pop. 1,200)

The Folk: Population — 34,200. Humans 95%,
Halflings 4%, Other 1%. Languages — Balok*,
Mordentish*, Falkovnian, Luktar, Halfling. Reli-
gions — Ezra*, Hala.

Borcans have average, athletic statures. Al-
though blessed with delicate hands, Borcans seem
to age quickly, given their harsh environment,
with skin tones ranging from fair to creamy tan.
Hair and eye color ranges widely, but dark brown is
common for both. Men of all classes keep their
wavy hair at a medium length, allowing it to grow
wild and roguish. Women grow their hair quite
long, adorning it with thin ribbons and wooden or
tortoiseshell combs. Clothing is utilitarian among
commoners, with men dressing in loose shirts and
trousers and women in blouses and medium-length
skirts. Dullearth tones are the norm in such humble
garb. Nobles, on the other hand, dress in baroque
Dementlieuse fashions, though they shy from bright
colors, preferring a black and white scheme ac-
cented with silver jewelry. Commoners and nobles
alike don more colorful clothing exclusively for
fest

 

As a people, Borcans have a sullen air about
them, an attitude that has permeated all aspects of
daily life. This is largely due to the crushing taxa-
tion most folk endure, combined with the cruel,
arbitrary rule of Borca’s mistress. The oppression
has worn down what was once a lusty, life-loving

S
