 

 

io

<i

See BA

 

attitude among Borcans, leaving a defeated people
who go about their business with a resigned fatal-
ism. A weary, pained look clings to their features;
they shuffle through their tasks as if afflicted by a
numbing poison. Their only respite is the grace of
the goddess Ezra, whose largest and most influen-
tial sect of clerics goes forth from the Great
Cathedral of Levkarest.

The Law: Pseudofeudal despotism. Ivana
Boritsi, commonly known as the Black Widow, is
the current mistress of Borca. Having inherited the
tule from her mother, Camille, who met an unex-
pected death, Ivana’s only political interest seems
to be indulging herself at her subjects’ expense. Her
sobriquet is derived from her infamous fatal ro-
mances, as Ivana’s lovers have a habit of ending
their lives in her bedchamber. Although the realm
is ostensibly governed under a feudal system, Ivana
is the only true landowner, with all citizens in
direct vassalage to her. Borca’s prominent aristoc-
racy is a mere plaything for Ivana; nobles enjoy
their status only as long as it pleases the Black
Widow. Ivana grants and revokes noble titles er-
ratically, creating perpetual flux in the makeup of
the Borcan nobility.

Ivana demands severe taxes from her nobles of
the moment, who in turn demand tribute from the
commoners. Prominent nobles retain enforcers to
collect these taxes, but it is the notoriously corrupt
forces of Ivana’s cousin, Ivan Dilisnya, that main-
tain order in Borca. Ivan is the only noble who
seems to resist Ivana’s cruel whims, and the only
Borcan who truly holds his own estate. Curiously,
however, there is rumored to be little love lost
between the cousins.

Little more than glorified thugs and leg break-
ers, Ivan’s enforcers never pass up an opportunity
to extort the meager funds Borcans have to their
names. Protection rackets are an epidemic, with
payment required from anyone unfortunate enough
to run into a roving band of Dilisnya enforcers.
Bribery is required merely to prevent a business
from being vandalized or to keep enough food to
live through the winter. There is virtually no
criminal or civil law in Borca, save what can be
bought through dirty coin.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
tye, corn, potatoes, apricots, sheep, cattle, chick-
ens, beer, wine, timber, iron, copper, lead, salt,
marble, leather goods, usury, culture. Coinage —
nightshade (gp), hemlock (sp), foxglove (cp).

 

 

 

Despite the corruption that plagues Borca, the
realm is politically and culturally active. Although
it is not the cultural equal of Dementlieu, Borca
does export its rich traditions of visual arts, music
and architecture to other realms. Ivana has over-
seen the establishment of a trading alliance with
the neighboring realms of Dementlieu, Mordent
and Richemulot. This has kept foreign wealth
flowing into Borca, and thus into lvana’s coffers.
The four realms have also arranged a mutual de-
fense pact to protect against the military aggressions
of Falkovnia to the north. Borca is further plagued
by clandestine incursions of Vistani-hunting mer-
cenaries from Invidia. Although the gypsies are not
loved in Borca, Ivan Dilisnya has warned that
further threats to Borean sovereignty results in
armed retaliation.

Realm Magic Rating: Borca hasa magic rating
between 2 and 3. Bards and clerics tend to be the
premier spellcasters of the land, which produces
few sorcerers or wizards

Characters: Classes — bards, clerics, fighters,
rogues. Skills — Bluff, Craft (alchemy,
leatherworking, painting, sculpture, stonemasonry),
Forgery, Intimidate, Knowledge (architecture and
engineering, nature, nobility and royalty), Profes-
sion (apothecary, herbalist, scribe), Sense Motive.
Feats — Dodge (plus derivatives), Exotic Weapon
Proficiency (firearms), Jaded, Skill Focus (Craft
[alchemy]), Voice of Wrath, Weapon Focus (dag-
ger, pistol)

Darkon

Cultural Level: Dark Age (5) to Chivalric
(8). Darkon’s Cultural Level ranges from Chivalric
along the Jagged Coast and the edges of the Forest
of Shadows to Dark Age in the wildest regions of
the Mountains of Misery.

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills, Plains, Mountains and Swamps). Darkon
(DAR-kon), one of the largest domains in the
Core, is a land of legend steeped in intrigue, terror
and magic. Stretching across the entire northern
third of the continent, the domain encompasses an
astonishing variety of landscapes. In the west, the
Sea of Sorrows laps at Darkon’s shore, while the
domain’s eastern edge ends at the frigid shores of
the Nocturnal Sea. North of Darkon lies the vast
expanse of the Mists, which roil and shift much
more chaotically than elsewhere in the Core. Thus
the bleak northern frontier, knownas the Mistlands,
is constantly in flux.

 

 

 
