 
 

Jes

 

liriscemnisankhbdiancionameeneeraaal

 

The Mountains of Misery overlook all south-
eastern Darkon, crowned by the barren volcanic
peaks of Mounts Nirka and Nyid. Rugged and
trackless, the mountains are surrounded by broken
badlands that sprawl far to the west. The Vale of
Tears, a wide, rolling floodplain dotted with small,
shadowy woodlands dominates the rest of the eas
ern half of Darkon. Darkon’s eastern shore is cold
and bleak, a flat, wind-beaten coastline featuring
only slim, sandy beaches.

Western Darkon is a thickly forested flood-
plain broken by the central Boglands and the
western Jagged Coast. The Forest of Shadows en-
shrouds most of the region, a menacing wood so
ancientand dense that no light can reach the forest
floor. The Boglands consist of patchy marshes
surrounding the dark depths of the Great Salt
Swamp. The Jagged Coast is a harsh, rocky shore
region riddled with caves and possessing only the
sparsest vegetation. The coast is a maze of tiny
islands and hidden coves, and the Sea of Sorrows
itself is storm ridden along Darkon’s shores.

  

  

 
  

 

Darkon is etched with a web of prominent
waterways, most flowing into the mighty Vuchar
River as it rushes westward. Numerous freshwater
and saline lakes dot the landscape as well, most in
the Mountains of Misery and the Boglands. Darkon’s
villages exhibit dazzling variety in their architec-
ture; each settlement is graced with a unique style
that complements its surroundings. The folk of
Corvia, for instance, have hollowed out the mas-
sive stone buttes of their village to create homes
and shops. The metropolis of Il Aluk, once the
jewel of Darkon, is now a damned city so inhospi-
table to life that it hasbeen rechristened Necropolis.
The climate in Darkon is temperate tending to-
ward extremes, with harsh winters, hot summers
and brief but pleasant springs and autumns.

Major Settlements: Corvia (pop. 4,400),
Delagia (pop. 1,500), Karg (pop. 8,500), Martira
Bay (pop. 10,400), Maykle (pop. 2,600), Mayvin
(pop. 1,500), Nartok (pop. 7,500), Neblus (pop.
2,900), Nevuchar Springs (pop. 1,100), Rivalis
(pop. 5,500), Sidnar (pop. 1,400), Tempe Falls
(pop. 2,500), Viaki (pop. 8,900).

The Folk: Population — 117,300. Humans
75%, Halflings 14%, Gnomes 5%, Elves 3%, Half-
Elves 1%, Dwarves 1%, Other 1%. Languages —
Darkonese*, Halfling, Gnome, Elven, Dwarven,
Falkovnian, Lamordian, Mordentish, Tepestani,
Vaasi. Religions — the Eternal Order*, Ezra.

a3 cs

   

The Darkonians have no common physical
appearance; nearly every conceivable combina-
tion of stature, facial features, and skin, eye and
hair colors can be observed among them. Skin
tones tend slightly toward fair to light tan, but this
is hardly the norm. Despite this variety, all
Darkonians tend to dress in practical garb, with
men favoring a tunic and breeches and women a
blouse and skirt. Earthen colors are preferred.
Among nobles, both genders pride themselves on
their elaborate cloaks and long boots and gloves.

  

The diverse Darkoniansnevertheless take pride
in their common heritage. Indeed, outsiders who
settle in Darkon often find forgotten roots in the
region, lending credence to the theory that Darkon
was perhaps a historical crossroads for many far-
flung lands. The principal shared trait among the
Darkonese is an almost fatalistic fear of the undead.
Local legends speak of an Hour of the Ascension,
when generations of the deceased will rise from the
grave and claim Darkon from the living. All
Darkonians are raised to believe and fear this
apocalyptic scenario.

Perhaps because of the relatively large popula-
tion of dwarves, elves, gnomes and halflings in
Darkon, prejudice against nonhuman races is not
as widespread here as in other domains. Although
races still tend to congregate with their own kind,
the purely reactionary fear or hatred of nonhumans
that dominates so much of the Land of Mists is
largely absent in Darkon.

The Law: Feudal hereditary monarchy. The
grim wizard-king Azalin Rex, newly restored to his
throne in Castle Avernus, rules Darkon with an
iron fist within a velvet glove. For nearly five years,
Azalin was missing, vanished in the wake of the
Requiem. He has only recently reappeared and is
quickly moving to reestablish the firm rule he once
enjoyed over his realm. Azalin governs harshly but
has set up a strong feudal base for his monarchy. A
powerful baron rules each major settlement and
the surrounding region, governing as he sees fit.
Barons are free to have their own vassals, set local
laws, appoint magistrates and control trade in their
lands. Local militias are conscripted in most settle-
ments to keep the peace. Barons and lesser nobles
also have their own personal forces, ranging froma
contingent of bodyguards to a small private army.

 

  

Azalin demands regular tribute from his vas-
sals but little else, preferring to spend his time in
arcane pursuits rather than politics. The wizard-
king’s presence among his subjects is strongly felt,
