 

however, due in no small part to his secret police,
the Kargat. Organized according to a pyramidal,
secretive hierarchy, the Kargat are greatly feared
among the Darkonians. They monitor the activi-
ties of nobles and guilds, spy on other domains and
carry out Azalin’s own inscrutable plots. They are
immune to baronial law and answer to no one but
their immediate superiors and Azalin himself.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
barley, rye, oats, hops, potatoes, carrots, cabbage,
grapes, hogs, sheep, cattle, goats, chickens, dairy,
herring, cod, flounder, sausage, beer, wine, timber,
peat, gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, salt, gems,
cloth, ceramics, perfumes, ships, arcane knowl-
edge. Coinage — crown (pp), skull (gp), bone (sp),
chip (cp).

Darkon is arguably the most powerful domain
in the entire Core, and with Azalin’s return, it will
likely remain so for some time. Although other
realms may contribute more to the culture of the
Core, Darkon is a true political, military and eco-
nomic kingdom, exerting its influence to achieve
power and wealth. It does brisk trade with virtually
all the realms to the south, though the transforma-
tion of II Aluk into Necropolis has stymied traffic
on the Vuchar River and its tributaries. Only the
realm of Falkovnia has a persistent adversarial
relationship with Darkon, though trade continues
along the highways that join the realms. Perennial
invasion attempts by Falkovnian forces are always
repelled, chillingly enough, by hordes of undead
that rise to protect Darkon from the mortal invad-
ers.

 

Realm Magic Rating: Darkon’s general magic
rating is 4 or 5, though some areas such as the
Mountains of Misery may have a rating of 3 or less.

Characters: Classes — bards, clerics, fighters,
rogues, wizards. Skills — Bluff, Craft (alchemy,
armorsmithing, blacksmithing, bowmaking,
gemcutting, locksmithing, shipmaking, stonema-
sonry, weaponsmithing), Diplomacy, Gather
Information, Knowledge (arcana, monster lore),
Perform (buffoonery, chant, harp, lute, shalm),
Profession (farmer, fisher, miner, sailor, scribe).
Feats — Blind-Fight, Cold One, Exotic Weapon
Proficiency (firearms), Ghostsight, Haunted, Run,
Skill Focus (Knowledge [monster lore]).

 

Dementlicu
Cultural Level: Renaissance (9).
Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Plains). The coastal domain of Dementlieu

2

 

(DAY-mon-lyoo) is a bastion of civilization in the
Core, a land of secrets and hidden loyalties. The
domain lies on a broad, green floodplain dappled
with lush woodlands and heaths. The realm’s west-
ern shore along the Sea of Sorrows is blessed with
numerous natural ports, including the glittering
Pernault Bay. Although the terrain is flat,
Dementlieu’s soil is sandy, and crop yields tend to
be low, with stunted plants and small fruits. Scat-
tered, sun-dappled forests cover the regions that
agriculture has not claimed. The coastline is edged
with rolling, sand dune beaches. The Musarde
River meanders north through the domain, pep-
pering the eastern countryside with oxbow lakes.

Dementlieu’s highways bustle with activity,
funneling people and wealth toward Port-a-Lucine.
The buildings in the domain are tall and narrow,
densely packed edifices of dull brown stone that

 

 

loom over the narrow, twisting village streets.
Windows and doorways are trimmed with white-
washed wood, and the shallow, gabled rooftops are
shingled in rich, dark brown wood. Towers are
crowned with elegant stone ornaments and statues
of legendary artists and civic leaders. Dementlieu’s
climate, blessedly mild, is characterized by fre-
quent precipitation and moderate temperatures.
Severe winters and sweltering summers are not
unheard of, however.

 

Major Settlements: Chateaufaux(pop. 1,500),
Port-a-Lucine (pop. 5,400).

The Folk: Population — 13,600. Humans 94%,
Halflings 3%, Other 2%. Languages — Mordentish*,
Lamordian, Falkovnian, Halfling. Religions: Ezra*.

The Dementlieuse tend toward slim but ath-
létic builds with strong features and high
cheekbones. Skin tones range from very pale to
olive-tan, while eye color ranges from pale blue to
green to dark brown. Hair is usually dark blond to
light brown in color, with the occasional auburn.
Beards and mustaches are common among men but
always kept neatly trimmed and styled. Women
never cut their hair short; noblewomen pin up
their locks very meticulously, while poor women
braid their hair. Clothing is important to the
Dementlieuse, especially among the nobility. Com-
moner men wear dark woolen trousers and light
cotton shirts and don cloth caps whether inside or
outdoors. Gentlemen prefer breeches and silk shirts
with tailed coats, as well as tall black hats. Wigs are
considered proper for men in public life. Com-
moner and noble women alike wear long, dark
dresses with high-button boots and always wear

 
