 

hats when outdoors. Women of the lower classes
wear simple bonnets, but the hat of a noblewoman
is large and elaborate. Black, white and shades of
gray are favored for day-to-day life, but for special
occasions, the nobles try to outdo one another with
opulent, brightly colored formalwear.

The Dementlieuse believe they are a highly
vilized people. They appreciate beauty and learn-
ing in all its forms, and their society is structured
according to rigid etiquette. Adherence to deco-
rum is vital, and those who overstep the delicate
balance between deference and bravado find them-
selves scorned. The Dementlicuse believe that
their advanced society has earned them a place of
respect among the civilized realms of the world,
and they say so openly. Not all outsiders are so
grateful for Dementlieu’s contributions, and many
folk consider the Dementlieuse to be shiftless fops
who produce nothing of value. Arcane magic is an
accepted facet of life in Dementlieu, though its
place in society is hardly respectable. Magic is seen
as a quaint distraction, primarily useful as enter-
tainment. Most wizards are stage performers rather
than powerful sages, the vast majority being en-
chanters or illusionists.

The Law: Aristocratic republic. Marcel
Guignol servesas the lord-governor of Dementlieu,
advised by the five-member Council of Brilliance
from the capital at Port-a-Lucine. Dementlieu has
a complex and multifaceted aristocratic society,
though the feudal system has long since dissolved.
True power still rests in the hands of the most
powerful noble families. The realm’s nobles elect
the lord-governorfor life, though dissatisfied nobles
may have him deposed and hold a new election.
The lord-governor is free to select his own advisers
for the Council of Brilliance, but the nobles often
firmly suggest candidates.

The lord-governor'sduties include writingand
enforcing laws, promoting the arts, administrating
the realm’s public institutions, appointing crimi-
nal judges and civil magistrates, and personally
adjudicating important trials. Voluntary conscrip-
tion is organized by the lord-governor to provide a
militia for all settlements, though most nobles
have much better trained and armed troops in their
personal retinues. Port-a-Lucine has the added
protection of Alanik Ray, a renowned elven inves-
tigator who lends his skills to the city’s watch on

 

 

 

sion.
Despite Dementlieu’s powerful aristocracy,
there isa pervasive tradition of the wealthy provid-

ing for the needy. Accordingly, there exists an
extensive network of food distribution and housing
for the poor, sponsored by the realm’s nobility.

 

Literacy is seen as very important, and even the
poorest children are taught to read and write.
Despite the progressive appearance, however,
Dementlieu’s lower classes still wallow in desperate
poverty and unspeakable crime. The nobles, mean-
while, believe that their benevolence gives them
the right to use and abuse the poor at their whim.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — potatoes,
wheat, barley, apples, grapes, cattle, dairy, herring,
sardines, wine, timber, cloth, weapons, books, ships,
culture, scientific knowledge. Coinage — corona
(pp), solar (gp), lunar (sp), bit (cp).

In spite of its small size, Dementlieu is a
powerful and respected realm. Culture is
Dementlieu’s chief export; Dementlieuse trends in
painting, sculpture, music, fashion, poetry, litera-
ture and cuisine quickly spread throughout the
Core. Dementlieuse scientists and craftsmen have
developed numerous coveted technologies, intro-
ducing other lands to such wonders as movable
type, the magnetic compass, optics, explosives and
miniaturized clockworks.

Dementlieu wields its cultural and techno-
logical supremacy as another realm might wield an
army, exerting a great deal of influence on the
culture of other lands. The domain has a trade
alliance with the neighboring realms of Borca,
Mordent, and Richemulot that has only increased
its influence on those lands. It also participates in
a mutual defense pact with the same realms to
protect against potential aggressions from
Falkovnia.

Realm Magic Rating: Dementlieu’s magic
rating is 5 as magic is not only well known but
commonly accepted. This is due to the many en-
chanters and illusionists who perform on stage for
rapt audiences. Nonetheless, a number of true
practitioners secretly perfect their magical knowl-
edge beyond the sight of most people of the realm.
Dementlieu’s high Cultural Level allows magically
talented folk to progress and experiment with the
art far beyond what is available in most domains.

Characters: Classes — bards, clerics, fighters,
rogues, sorcerers, wizards. Skills — Appraise, Bluff,
Craft (bookbinding, calligraphy, gunsmithing,
locksmithing, painting, sculpture, shipmaking,
weaving), Diplomacy, Hypnosis, Knowledge (ar-
cane, nobility and royalty), Perform (ballad, dance,
drama), Profession (cook, fisher, sailor, scribe),

 
