 

   

Sleight of Hand, Spellcraft, Swim. Feats — Ethe-
real Empathy, Exotic Weapon Proficiency
(firearms), Ghostsight, Open Mind, Reincarnated,
Weapon Finesse (pistol, rapier).

falkovnia

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Plains). Falkovnia (fol-KOV-ni-a) is a sinister
realm crushed by the iron fist of military tyranny. It
is a region of rolling lowlands swathed in dark
forests. The woods are wild, shadowy places filled
with vicious predators and unspeakable horrors.
The towering trees of Falkovnia have bark so dark
it is nearly black. In the eastern parts of the realm,
dead treesare unusually common. Stripped of leaves
and bark, they stand bleached white like driftwood.
Falkovnian legend says that a tree dies for every
person executed by the realm’s merciless ruler. The
realm’s mighty forests are slowly shrinking as the
fertile land is cleared for agriculture. Grain is an
important export in Falkovnia, and in the late
summer, the countryside transforms into fields of
swaying gold. Tributaries of the Musarde River
skirt the borders of Falkovnia but do not penetrate
the dark interior. Lake Kriegvogel, with its abyssal
waters of midnight blue, is the domain’s only no-
table body of freshwater.

Falkovnia’s cities are dark and unfriendly, free
of any aesthetic sensibility whatsoever. Homes and
shops are squat, efficient structures of unfinished
timber and brick stacked densely next to one
another. Stone city walls and fortresses are tower-
ing, gray and featureless. Garbage, offal and mud
cover every surface, and the air swarms with horse-
flies and yellow jackets. Falkovnia’s climate is one
of extremes, characterized by bitter winters and
hot, humid summers. The realm has a serious
problem with disease, especially during the sum-
mer and in the congested cities.

Major Settlements: Aerie (pop. 2,600), Lekar
(pop. 15,900), Morfenzi (pop. 1,500), Silverbas
(5,800), Stangengrad (pop. 6,500)

The Folk: Population — 64,300. Humans 93%,
Halflings 2%, Half-Elves 2%, Gnomes 1%, Elves
1%, Other 1%. Languages — Falkovnian*,
Darkonese, Balok, Mordentish, Halfling, Gnome,
Elven, Dwarven. Religions — Hala, Ezra.

Falkovnians are fair skinned and usually vis-
ibly underfed and overworked. Dark blond to
medium brown hair is typical, as are hazel ro deep
brown eyes, though green eyes are not unheard of.

 

 

Men wear their hair in savage crew cuts, while
women grow their hair long, wild and unkempt.
Falkovnians dress in deliberately drab clothing; to
stand out is to draw the attention of the realm’s
soldiers, which can mean death or worse. Dull
earthen colors are common, with men favoring
tunics and breeches and women blouses and long
skirts. Most commoners wear rag wrappings instead
of shoes. Folk who do not belong to the soldiery are
usually filthy with mud, dung, lice and fleas. All
Falkovnians are branded on their foreheads at birth
with the rulet’s seal, a hawk’s head. This clearly
identifies Falkovnians in other lands and reminds
every citizen of his true status: property.

Falkovnians are a downtrodden lot. Over-
taxed and overburdened, they have little to look
forward to but death. The unending horrors of
military brutality have eroded any sense of beauty
or hope they once harbored in their hearts. Some
acquire a brutal personality, taking on the qualities
of their military oppressors. Most Falkovnians,
however, are simply passive and just a little para-
noid. They tend to be reticent and inhumanly
jaded to violence and gore.

 

If life in Falkovnia is cruel for humans, it is a
nightmare for nonhumans. Although Falkovnia
has almost no native nonhuman races, all those
who pass through the region are slapped into irons.
Such “subhuman” races are considered state prop-
erty, to be treated as chattel slaves. To breed out
the taint of nonhuman blood, racial intermarriage
is encouraged by the state, though Falkovnian
custom forbids it. Those unfortunates with only
one human parent are also deemed state property.

The Law: Military despotism. Vlad Drakov,
the mercenary-king, rules Falkovnia with an iron
hand. Drakov is infamous not only for perennial
aggression against his neighbors, but his unwaver-
ing cruelty toward his own people. A restless and
bloodthirsty warrior, Drakov seems to oppress his
people simply for the sake of doing so, just to see
how monstrous he can be. It is widely known that
he is a sadist; he is said to demand a nightly
execution by impalement to accompany hisevening
meal.

Falkovnia is a military state, pure and simple.
There is no civilian government or police force
There is no true aristocracy; soldiers are the highest
social class. Drakov’s army not only maintains the
peace, but also oversees nearly every aspect of
public life. Military tribunals conduct all trials and
justice is universally swift and harsh. Punishments

   
