are usually shocking public displays of torture and
execution, crowned with the unspeakable practice
of hanging the bodies of slain criminals to rot on
city walls.

Not every individual in the army is a warrior.
Bureaucrats and other civil servants also receive
military commissions and titles. Falkoynians, how-
ever, reserve their greatest hatred and fear for the
Talons, Drakov’s elite soldiers. Shock troops with
a fanatical loyalty to their lord, the Talons are
themselves cruel sadists and are whispered to pos-
nearly supernatural battle prowess.

 

 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
oats, barley, hops, rye, potatoes, cattle, hogs, dairy,
falcons, beer, dye, timber, salt, weapons. Coinage
— falconhead (gp), falconclaw (sp), falconeye
(cp).

Falkovnia produces a tremendous amount of
grain, especially wheat, and it is rapidly solidifying
apositionas the breadbasket of the Core. Falkovnian
merchants — guarded by Falkovnian soldiers, of
course — maintain trade outposts throughout the
domains of the Core. The exportation of cereals
generates a king’s ransom for Drakov, which he
then uses to fund the maintenance of the army.

 

 

 

 

 

 

This vital contribution aside, Vlad Drakov has
made it quite clear that his is to be a throne of
conquest. The mercenary-king has tried his hand
at invading every bordering realm at one time or
another, but without success. Nearly every cam-
paign has met with disaster — some spectacularly
so— which only enrages Drakov further. It may be
that Falkovnian conquest is destined to fail. Re-
gardless, the realms of Mordent, Dementlieu, Borca
and Richemulot have agreed to a mutual defense
pact to safeguard against future Falkovnian aggres-
sion.

Realm Magic Rating: Falkoynia’s wizards usu-
ally find their way into the army and concentrate
on militarily useful spells. The land’s magic rating,
however, is only a3 due to the downtrodden nature
of the populace. In a society with more freedom,
Falkovnia’s magic rating could reach greater heights.

 

Characters: Classes — Fighters, rangers,
rogues, wizards. Skills — Bluff, Craft (armorsmithing,
blacksmithing, weaponsmithing), Handle Animal,
Hide, Intimidate, Move Silently, Profession
(brewer, lumberjack, stable hand), Survival. Feats
— Back to the Wall, Great Fortitude, Improved
Critical, Jaded, Run, Toughness, Weapon Focus
(bastard sword).

 

   

gs
