 

 

forlorn

Cultural Level: Iron Age (3). Ruins in For-
lorn reflect a Medieval (7) culture.

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Plains). Forlorn (for-LORN) is a blasted
highland domain, a forsaken land from which
humanity has long been driven. Nestled just south
of the Balinok Mountains, Forlorn is a land of
thickly forested uplands with sparse heather and
mosses clinging to the exposed rocky hillsides. The
woods are dark, twisted places full of grasping
branches and ominous shadows. In some areas, the
land’s goblyn inhabitants have actively destroyed
the forest, reducing it to a wasteland of broken
stumps and sucking mud. The Maw of Arawn,
rising from the center of Forlorn, is a jagged peak
that perpetually belches noxious vapors. The only
notable body of water is the Lake of Red Tears,
whose deep, dark waters appear crimson when the
sun reflects off the nearby red granite cliffs.

Major Settlements: None.

The Folk: Population — unknown; 1,900
goblyns. Languages — unknown. Religions — un-
known.

 

Forlorn is not a settled land. The primary
inhabitants are goblyns, horrid humanoid crea-
tures that value little but strength and slaughter.
Although generally lawless, the goblyns do pursue
some organized goals, particularly the systematic
destruction of the land’s forests. They otherwise
occupy themselves with petty power struggles, dis-
tracted only by the occasional captive outsider,
whom they gleefully torture and devour. Rumors
persist ofa tiny contingent ofhumans remaining in
Forlorn, descendents of an ancient order of druids.
If such humans exist, then they have concealed
their presence quite well, perhaps out of fear of the
goblyn clans.

The Law: No formal government. There ex-
ists a loose clan system among Forlorn’s goblyns.
Each clan has a distinctive tartan pattern, which
the goblyns display on tattered kilts and standards.
An outsider would be hard pressed to tell one clan.
apart from the others, however. The strongest
goblyn in a clan dominates its weaker kin until
toppled by a challenger. Clans battle among them-
selves for resources, prestige and pure sport. The
goblyns’ tenacious destruction of Forlorn’s forests
leads some outsiders to speculate that the goblins
serve a hidden master. Rumors abound that crea-
tures far more terrifying than the goblyns haunt the
crumbling castle above the Lake of Red Tears.

 

 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
ploited) — timber, iron, clay, salt. Coinage —
none.

Forlorn is an untamed land, a dark and myste-
rious corner of the Core to its neighbors. The
goblyns have no interest in communication or
trade with the surrounding realms. Indeed, lumber-
jacks and miners have made occasional forays into
Forlorn in search of its unclaimed resources; none
have ever returned.

Realm Magic Rating: Forlorn has a general
magic rating of 1. Insofar as the druids are con-
cerned, however, the magic rating of Forlorn for
them is 3.

 

Characters: None.

Dazlan

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Hills,
Mountains and Plains). Hazlan (HAZ-lun) is a
domain of ancient magic and severe oppression,
lying in the extreme southeast of the Core, at the
southern end of the Balinok Mountains. The
Hazlani Balinoks are rugged but traversable, though.
vegetation is sparse and landslides are not uncom-
mon. Dusty cliffs and canyons slope downward to
a sweeping landscape of knolls and valleys that
stretch off to the horizon. Massive blocks of golden
stone and half-buried statuary hint at a forgotten
era. Mineral springs, common in the foothills, are
warm pools of jade-green water encrusted with
alkali salts. Farther eastward, the foothills become
dry plains blanketed by brown grasses and briars.
Herds of sheep wander the lonely plains, their
bleating carried weakly on the breezes. Occasional
stands of trees dot the grasslands, but overall Hazlan
is a land of open sky and trackless terrain.

The poorer Rashemani majority dwells in
simple, squat structures of whitewashed brick. Roofs
are flat and facades are unadorned, though tiny,
dutifully tended vegetable gardens grow alongside
many homes. The estates of the wealthy Mulan, by
comparison, are sprawling, opulent abodes. Serene
gardens of poppy flowers and bubbling fountains
surround magnificent edifices of polished gray,
pink and russet stone. Delicate latticework covers
the tiny, rounded windows. Towering minarets
and domes inlaid with intricate mosaics sparkle in
the sun. Hazlan has a generally mild but temperate
climate featuring long, hot summers and short, wet
winters. Although the Balinoks are capped with

 
