 

snow, truly frigid weather is rare elsewhere in the
realm.

Major Settlements: Ramulai (300), Sly-Var
(4,500), Toyalis (8,200).

The Folk: Population —26,100. Humans 92%,
Halflings 4%, Gnomes 3%, Other 1%. Languages
— Vaasi*, Halfling, Gnome, Balok. Religions —
the Lawgiver®, Hala,

The Hazlani can be divided into two distinct
ethnic groups: the Rashemani and the Mulan. The
Rashemani make up 99% of the human population
and are considered the lower class. They have
short, muscular statures and skin that ranges from
light olive-tan to a deep, ruddy bronze. Hair color
is usually dark brown or black, and eye color is
commonly dark brown. Men keep their hair wild
and wear bushy beards, while women work their
long tresses into elaborate braids. Both genders
dress in baggy trousers, tunics or smocks and prefer
earthy colors highlighted with dark reds, blues and
greens.

The upper class Mulan are tall and slim with
angular features and fine cheekbones. Their skin is
pale and sallow, their eyes gray or light hazel.
Mulan hair is naturally a dark blond, but both
genders ritually shave their heads daily. They also
remove what little body hair they have and cover
their skin with elaborate tattoos. Men and women
wear distinct designs by tradition, and receiving
one’s first tattoo is a sign of adulthood among the
Mulan. Both genders wear cloth wrappings instead
of trousers or breeches and swath themselves in
luxurious scarlet robes. Women wear vests, but
men prefer to go about bare chested. Soft slippers
and baroque jewelry complete the ensemble.

The Hazlani are hard-edged people with a
deep sense of pride. Most are raised in the church
of the Lawgiver, which tends to instill both a
fatalistic streak and a somewhat cruel nature.
Rashemani are practical and gruff, preferring ac-
tions to words. The Mulan, meanwhile, are generally
arrogant and paranoid and obsessed with protect-
ing their place at the top of society. Years of
nervous submission under Hazlik’s cruel eye have
turned the Rashemani and Mulan alike into dis-
trustful and suspicious folk. They have learned to
be wary of others’ motives and tend to regard
everyone they meet as cold rivals or outright en-
emies. The Rashemani react with stubbornness,
refusing to submit to those without authority to
hack up their strength. The Mulan, meanwhile,

 

 

 

become livid with rage when their demands are not
met in a prompt fashion.

The Law: Feudal ethnocratic despotism.
Hazlan’s ruler is the Mulan wizard-tyrant Hazlik,
who holds power through sheer ruthlessness and
arcane might. Although he rules under no man-
date, Hazlik has established something resembling
a feudal state, with a council of Mulan governors
overseeing various regions in his realm. Each gov-
emoris personally responsible for enforcing Hazlik’s
decrees, collecting taxes and keeping the peace.
The governors appoint other Mulan to help ad-
minister their territories, granting land and minor
titles in return for shared culpability. Although
there is the appearance of law in Hazlan, it is the
Byzantine system of boons and favors among the
Mulan that usually determines who can obtain
justice. The Rashemaniare stranded on the outside
of this system, unable to participate except when it
is strategically expedient for the Mulan to involve
them.

There is no state military in Hazlan. Each
Mulan family recruitsa personal group ofRashemani
soldiers, resulting in several hundred small corps of
bodyguards, each in the service of a different mas-
ter. Hazlik, for his part, has no interest in the
politics of his own people, instead concentrating
onhis magical research. While the arcane arts were
once outlawed in Hazlan, Hazlik has since institu-
tionalized them. His wizard academy in Ramulai
trains the most promising young apprentices, mold-
ing them to Hazlik’s own mysterious purposes.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
barley, corn, cotton, olives, grapes, hazelnuts,
opium, tea, goats, sheep, cattle, honey, copper,
lead, iron, leather goods, cloth, arcane knowledge.
Coinage soulorb (gp), moondagger (sp),
bloodpenny (cp).

   

 

Hazlan isan insular domain where the folk are
more concerned with their own squabbles than
events in distant lands. The land’s reputation as a
place of magical power, however, draws the curious
and the foolish. Hazlik apparently has little inter-
est in making allies with his neighbors and is
known to use captured spies for magical experi-
mentation. Hazlan conducts some trade with Nova
Vaasa and the Barovian village of Immol, but the
Hazlani are generally not eager to invite outsiders
to their realm.

Realm Magic Rating: Hazlan’s magic rating is
a3 overall due to its former precedent for outlawing
magic. It has the ability to become a rating 4 or 5
