 

 

land, though Hazlik himself is doomed to remain at
rating 3.

Characters: Classes —clerics, fighters, rogues,
wizards. Skills — Climb, Craft (alchemy, calligra-
phy, leatherworking, weaving), Knowledge
(arcana), Profession (apothecary, farmer, herds-
man, scribe, stable hand, tanner), Ride, Spellcraft.
Feats — Combat Casting, Mounted Combat (plus
derivatives), Spell Focus (Divination), Toughness,
Voice of Wrath, Weapon Focus (falchion).

 

Invidia

Cultural Level: Chivalric (8).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Hills). Nestled in the heart of the southwest-
ern Core, Invidia (in-VID-i-a) is a land where
passions are easily inflamed and daggers are drawn
with little provocation. Cut by the murky waters of
the Gundar and Musarde Rivers, the land stretches
out largely unspoiled, broken only by the occa-
sional farm or vineyard peeking through the thick,
old growth forests. Massive trees soar above an
open floor of soft, green grasses and spongy mosses.
The oaks, redwoods and maples burst into fiery
colors in autumn, unrivaled in their beauty any-
where in the Core. Noisy flocks of crows and
swallows soar over the lush landscape, darting back
and forth in the warm breezes. The bulk of the
domain’s population is concentrated in the bus-
tling river villages, and even rural folk tend to live
within an hour's ride of a settlement. Journeys
through the wilderness are lonesome; travelers
only rarely spy lone carts burdened with hay or
casks of wine. Their only companions in the wilds
are lean packs of wolves, which keep menacing
pace with travelers for hours at a time.

Invidia’s buildings are tall with steeply gabled
roofs tiled in black wooden shingles. Although
plastered and painted a creamy dun color, most
Inividian structures have crumbling facades that
expose the red brick underneath. Interiors are
wooden, the staircases and rafters darkly stained
and intricately carved with grapevine designs. Ba-
roque towers, topped with charcoal-gray cupolas
and grim statuary, tower above the grandest build-
ings. Invidia’s climate is temperate, although the
realm boasts long, pleasant summers.

Major Settlements: Curriculo (pop. 1,000),
Karina (pop. 2,300)

The Folk: Population — 6,900. Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Balok*, Mordentish,
Falkovnian, Luktar, Vaasi. Religions — Ezra, Hala.

 

 

Unlike many domains, Invidia does not have
its own distinct ethnic group. Most Invidians are of
mixed heritage, with Barovian and Kartakan blood
running strongest. As such, few generalizations can
be made about their physical appearance. Invidians
range from swarthy and stocky to fair and lean, but
they do tend to have the best features of their
ancestors, Invidian clothing is simple but aestheti-
cally pleasing. Men wear tunics, breeches and high
boots. Women dress in loose-fitting shirts and
layered skirts. Bits of sparkling jewelry are com-
monly worn by both genders, with tasteful, solitary
earrings or rings predominating.

Invidians are infamous for their passionate
personalities; it is not, however, a compliment to
say that someone hasan “Invidian heart.” Invidians
are hot-tempered and tempestuous, frequently al-
lowing their passions to get the better of them.
Marital infidelity is common, as are the grudges
and spilt blood that inevitably follow. Bitterness is
nursed for years over small (or even imagined)
slights, and it is not unknown for violence to erupt
even within families when tempers flare.

These stereotypical traits aside, the Invidians
are solid enough people. They are hard workers
who nonetheless like to enjoy the fruits of their
labors and have little respect for either the stuffy or
the lazy. The populace is generally divisible into a
loose class system, although the delineation is not
as sharp as in other lands. The rich still look down
on the poor, but the nobility tends to be weak and
ineffectual. Accordingly, the domain hosts a strong
merchant middle class. Most Invidians hold a deep
loathing for the Vistani. Although this might be
overcompensation in light of Malocchio’s anti-
Vistani policies, their hatred is no less chilling.

The Law: Formerly independent villages shift-
ing to despotism. The vicious tyrant Malocchio
Aderre has ruthlessly been increasing his hold on
Invidia for nearly a decade. Prior to Malocchio’s
ascent to power, Invidia had experienced a period
of isolation and weak self-governance at the local
level. This state of affairs had persisted since a local
witch rumored to be of Vistani blood assassinated
the previous despot, Bakholis. A cruel lord, Bakholis
seemed more interested in protecting his hunting
rights than in governing. Although Malocchio is
perhaps even more brutal than his predecessor, he
has taken a much more aggressive approach to
managing his realm. He encourages trade between
the domain’s villages and generally pursues a more
unified vision for Invidia. Although Invidia itself

 

 

 

 
