   

cannot raise much ofan army, Malocchio has hired
mercenaries from across the Core to serve his
expansionist agenda. Furthermore, the mercenary-
king of Falkovnia, Vlad Drakov, has lent Invidia
his own troops, though his motives for such an
uncharacteristic show of good faith are unknown.

Malocchio’s greatest obsession is his burning
hatred for the Vistani. The gypsies are, to say the
least, not welcome in his realm; all Invidian mer-
cenaries have standing orders to kill Vistani on
sight. Besides this unseemly duty, Malocchio’s sol-
diers collect taxes, protect Invidian merchants and
generally enforce a militant order in the realm.
Invidians are fearful of these brutal soldiers but
have learned to follow their orders unhesitatingly
and avoid them whenever possible. Although brig-
and activity has been successfully suppressed by the
mercenary presence, attacks from solitary madmen
— such as Karina’s infamous Midnight Slasher
seem to be on the rise.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — barley,
rye, hops, wheat, oats, potatoes, cabbage, grapes,
hogs, wine, beer, sulfur, salt. Coinage — drymark
(gp), sweetpiece (sp), bitterbit (cp)

   

 

 

Asan be expected, the activities of Invidia’s
new ruler have agitated the surrounding domains.
Alarmingly, Malocchio has recently begun to or-
der his troops over Invidia’s border to literally hunt
Vistani in other lands. This strategy has particu-
larly enraged Ivan Dilisnya, commander of Borca’s
military, who has sworn armed retaliation if his
troops catch Invidian mercenaries on Borcan soil.
Malocchio is also risking conflict with Barovia,
e Vistani are rumored to be under special
protection from Count von Zarovich. Notall realms
are hostile to Invidia, however. As noted,
Falkovnia’s king seems to support Malocchio’s
ambitions for his own reasons; whether this grows
into an alliance remains to be seen. A brisk trade
across the Invidia-Barovia border has always ex-
isted, and as long as outright war doesn’t break out,
merchants will likely continue to trade with the
Gundarakites in Barovia’s western foothills.

whei

   

 

Realm Magic Rating: Invidia’s magic rating
lies between 2 and 3. For most areas, assume a 3
rating unless the area has been cursed by the
Vistani for its extreme hatred of the traveling folk.

Characters: Classes — bards, fighters, rogues,
sorcerers. Skills — Bluff, Gather Information, In-

EG fh

Paki

6

 
