Che Southern Core

timidate, Profession (brewer, herbalist), Sense
Motive, Survival. Feats — Combat Reflexes, Ex-
otic Weapon Proficiency (firearms), Improved
Initiative, Lunatic, Quick Draw, Weapon Focus
(dagger, pistol).

Kartakass

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Hills). Located in the south-central Core,
Kartakass (KAR-ta-kass) is a land of music where
joyful song echoes through the black forests, tinged
ever so slightly by an undertone of fear. It is a
domain of dense woodlands blanketing a region of
rocky upland terrain southwest of the Balinok
Mountains. The forests are wild and treacherous
here, from the thorny undergrowth to the fierce
wolves that stalk the wooded ridges. The wilder-
ness is far from lonely, however, as the sweet
baritone voices of lumberjacks at work float over
the hills. The domain is riddled with spectacular
natural caverns, endlessly branching labyrinths of
limestone that wind deep into the cold earth. As
daylight begins to wane, silvery fog rises from the
ground, settling in low places and making travel
through the forests all the more dangerous. The

 

Musarde River’s headwaters lie in Kartakass, and
here the mighty waterway is clear and sparkling,
pooling into serene ponds and lakes on its way to
the valleys of Sithicus.

Buildings in Kartakass are massive log lodges
with broad facades and towering thatch roofs.
Rows of narrow windows, bold wooden carvings
and delicate floral patterns grace the fronts of
homes and shops. Most structures feature enor-
mous central fireplaces ringed by a raised dais for
musical performances and storytelling. Natural
surroundings are frequently incorporated directly
into the domain’s architecture. Living trees may be
employed as natural pillars, or a structure may open
up directly into a cavern of glittering crystal. Even
the humblest settlements feature public amphithe-
aters for annual singing contests. Kartakass’s climate
isgenerally moderate, but harsh winters sometimes
strike the domain.

Major Settlements: Harmonia (pop. 1,500),
Skald (pop. 2,800).

The Folk: Population —4,500. Humans 98%,
Half-Elves 1%, Other 1%. Languages — Vaasi*,
Balok, Sithican. Religions — Ezra, Hala.

Kartakans are a lean, graceful breed of folk
blessed with long limbs and angular, handsome

oe
