 

features. Their skin is very fair and creamy, some-
times dotted with a few scattered freckles. Their
eyes are always a startling shade of blue-violet.
Kartakan hair is wavy and normally a flaxen blond,
but very rarely a child with raven tresses is born.
Men keep their hair long and wild, often growing
it past their shoulders. Women allow their hair to
grow all the way to their waists and likewise shun
styling it. Neatly trimmed goatees and long, full
mustaches are typical among men. Kartakan cloth-
ing is comfortable but dashing. Men and women
alike wear blousy shirts and trousers, the latter
tucked into high black boots. Women frequently
wear short vests over their blouses, while men
prefer full coats. Wide-brimmed hats are popular
with men, particularly among woodsmen and trav-
elers. Clothing colors are vibrant, with brilliant
reds, yellows and blues being the most popular
hues. Delicate embroidery is frequently used to
decorate Kartakan garb. Jewelry is used sparingly;
the sparkle of a single earring or ring is considered
most attractive.

 

  

 

 

Kartakans are a warm, gregarious lot noted for
their love of music and talent with song. There are
melodies for every occasion and daily activity, and
a Kartakan village at work or play is a veritable
festival of music. These folk also have a fondness
forpoetry and storytelling. Tall tales, called feeshkas,
area Kartakan tradition meant to teach lessonsand
play on the gullibility of listeners. Wandering bards
are also a local institution, and some, such as the
dashing Harkon Lukas, gain a celebrity of sorts.
The arrival of a famous bard stirs a Kartakan
settlement to celebration and passion. A popular,
bitter local brew called meekulbrau sweetens voices
and loosens inhibitions. Kartakans are content and
thankful for the simple pleasures of life. They
respect tradition, wisdom and musical skill above
all else. They fear little but the vicious wolves that
stalk the domain, creatures that have been known
to enter homes at night and drag slumbering vic-
tims from their beds. Legends speak of a time when
the wolves disguised themselves as men, tricking
unfortunate souls just long enough to leap on and
devour them.

The Law: Meritocratic independent settle-
ments. Kartakans have a shared culture, but each
settlement in the domain is autonomous. No cen-
tral authority dictates or enforces law throughout
Kartakass. Each settlement chooses a Meistersinger
at an annual competition marked by wild revelries
and constant music. The individual who wins the

 

singing contest becomes the Meistersinger, re-
sponsible for governing throughout the next year.
Although he appoints others to organize a village’s
militia, the Meistersinger is otherwise personally
involved in all matters that concern the commu-
nity. He delegates nothing, arbitrating all disputes
and meting out justice as he sees fits. He also serves
asa cultural and moral leader charged with ensur-
ing that the youngest generations learn the mora.
These songs, which Kartakans believe are divine
gifts from the mouths of the deities themselves,
teach moral lessons to children and adults alike.
Although vocal talent is the principal gauge of a
Meistersinger’s worthiness, those who fulfill their
duties poorly are almost always ousted the next
year. Most Meistersingers serve for many years
before retiring from public life voluntarily.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — rye, bar-
ley, oats, beets, potatoes, cabbages, hogs, cattle,
dairy, sausage, beer, timber, salt, musical instru-
ments. Coinage — ballad (gp), dirge (sp), canticle
(cp).

The lack of a sovereign ruler has prevented
Kartakass from achieving any real political stand-
ing with other lands. Although it isa rustic domain,
it conducts lively trade with its neighbors, particu-
larly Barovia and Invidia, with whom it shares
informal mercantile alliances. Kartakan merchants
are cunning and charismatic opportunists infa-
mous throughout the southern Core for their
congenial demeanors, which often hide predatory
mindsets. Similarly, Kartakan lumberjacks are
known for being a touch overeager and have been
caught illicitly felling wood in other domains.
Overall, Kartakass’s reputation is healthy with
other lands, though the elves of Sithicus take an
increasingly dimmer view of migration into their
territory.

Realm Magic Rating: Kartakass has a magic
rating of 3 overall. Bards may find that they are able
to cast their spells as if in a rating 4 realm.

Characters: Classes — bards, fighters, rangers,
rogues, sorcerers. Skills — Craft (carpentry, weav-
ing), Gather Information, Knowledge (nature),
Perform (ballad, harp, lute, ode, storytelling), Pro-
fession (brewer, farmer, lumberjack), Survival. Feats
— Expertise (plus derivatives), Lunatic, Skill Fo-
cus (Perform), Voice of Wrath, Weapon Focus
(Rapier).

 

 
