 

 

Reening

Cultural Level: None. Ruins suggest that
Keening was once a Chivalric (8) domain.

Landscape: No Ecology (Temperate Moun-
tains). Keening (KEEN-ing) initially appears to be
a normal enough, if forbidding, domain. It is an
isolated region nestled between the forests of Tepest,
the Shadow Rift and the Mountain of Misery. Its
only notable feature is Mount Lament, a bleak,
windy peak crowned with wisps of fog. The
mountain’s dark gray stone supports little vegeta-
tion, only pale green mosses and lichens. The
slopes of Mount Lament seem eerily empty; not a
single living creature dwells in the domain. A
nameless settlement lies in ruins near the base of
the mountain, inhabited only by the undead. The
winds that constantly blow across Mount Lament
sometimes seem to moan a mournful song. The
domain is temperate but chill, its skies perpetually
overcast and its seasons featureless.

Major Settlements: None.

The Folk: Population — none; 970 undead.
Languages — none. Religions — none. No mortal
creatures are known to dwell in Keening. The
village that lies at the foot of Mount Lament is
populated by mindless undead abominations, which
are said to shuffle through a grotesque parody of
their mortal lives. The Tepestani, who have dwelled
in Mount Lament’s shadow for as long as they can
remember, know nothing of the village’s horrid
fate or the nature of its once-living inhabitants.

 

The Law: No formal government. Keening is
a forsaken, desolate land not meant for the living.
If any creature calls Keening its realm, it is likely
undead or mad.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
ploited) —lead, copper, gypsum. Coinage —none.

Those who know of its haunted reputation
avoid Keening at all costs. Brigands and dwarves
from the Mountains of Misery have occasionally
ventured into the domain, seeking mineral wealth
or other plunder. The Tepestani know better than
to attempt anything so foolish.

Realm Magic Rating: Keening’s magic rating
is 0 as far as any visiting living beings are con-
cerned. Only necromancers are able routinely to
acquire spells above 3rd level. Any undead capable
of casting spells act as if the realm had a magic
rating of 3.

Characters: None.

 

 

Lamordia

Cultural Level: Renaissance (9).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Plains). Lamordia (laMOR-di-a) is a
bleak coastal realm in the northwestern Core, a
land ravaged by the elements. The domain lies
south of Darkon’s Jagged Coast on the Sea of
Sorrows and includes the string of islands known as
the Finger, which stretches out to the northwest.
Notable are the frozen Isle of Agony, where a
demonic creature is said to lair, and rocky, forsaken.
Demise. During the summer months, a muddy
causeway links the islands of the Finger, but few
travelers brave the brackish muck. The interior is
a region of towering forests where the black tr
grow massive and dense. The woods are forlorn and
eerily still, but travelers often have the impression
that they are being watched from the shadows.
Each spring, woodsmen inevitably find thawed
corpses deep in the wilderness, their forms mangled
beyond recognition. The terrain is rugged in the
north, especially along the rocky upland region
lcnown as the Sleeping Beast. To the south, a
wooded delta marks where the mighty Musarde
River meets the Sea of Sorrows.

 

Lamordian villages are tidy and attractive,
whether awash in summer wildflowers or slumber-
ing peacefully beneath winter snow. Two or three
stories tall, the neat rows of homes and shops look
down over narrow streets of gray, smooth cobble-
stone. Buildings are constructed with thick timber
frames and brick, then plastered and painted white
or cream. Roofs are steep and gabled, with thick
thatch to keep out the cold. Although Lamordia is
atemperate domain, its winters are extraordinarily
harsh. Blizzards blanket the land with unending
snow and batter the inhabitants with bitter, howl-
ing winds. For much of the year, sleighs and
snowshoes are the preferred modes of transporta-
tion. The summer is no less difficult on travelers, as
thick, sucking mud collects in low areas.

Major Settlements: Ludendorf (pop. 900),
Neufurchtenburg (pop. 700).

The Folk: Population — 3,200. Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages —Lamordian*, Mordentish,
Falkoynian, Darkonese. Religions — none.

 

Lamordians are lean, square-shouldered folk
tall in stature and wiry in physique. Their skin is
exceptionally fair but tinted ruddy from the numb-
ing wind that seems to blow across the domain
constantly Eyecolorisusuelly een orblue, Their
straight or wavy hair is light blond to dark brown,

 
