 

 

 

 

Le
eS

ON GP IN

though fairer hair is slightly more common. Men
cut their hair to a medium length, usually to just
above the neck, and keep it styled back. Women
grow their hair long and either pin it up or weave
it into twin braids. Mustaches and beards are never
seen on men, but muttonchop sideburns are quite
popular. Clothing is exceptionally well made in
Lamordia, but modest and somber. Men wear col-
lared shirts, vests and trousers, with wealthier men
adding a waistcoat and scarf. Nobles often wear
pointed black caps as well. Women prefer modest
woolen dresses with high collars and frequently
wear tight, white bonnets. Color is almost unheard
of in Lamordian garb; black, white and shades of
gray are the only hues to be seen. Jewelry is never
worn, even among the nobility, though noblemen
carry accessories such as canes and pocket watches.

Lamordians are extremely hardy folk accus-
tomed to the domain’s savage winter storms and

 

generally treacherous environment. They perse-
vere with calm determination, convinced that
they can survive and thrive through sheer hard
work and will. Unlike many folk in the Land of
Mists, Lamordians are not at all superstitious. They
are in fact rational almost to a fault and believe in
tackling every problem with a commonsense solu-

 

 

x

tion. No church has been able to gain a foothold
among the Lamordians, who are deistic or outright
atheistic. They are skeptical of anyone who prom-
ises easy answers through faith or magic, which
they see as crutches for a weak mind. Lamordians
pursue humble crafts and try to savor the simple
joys of life. They reserve their disdain for Victor
Mordenheim, a somew

   

shady surgeon and sci-
entist who conducts strange experiments on his
estate in northern Lamordia

The Law: Hereditary aristocracy with repub-
lican settlements. Baron von Aubrecker rules
Lamordia from his estate in the Sleeping Beast
The baron is an aristocrat hailing from the family
that has ruled Lamordia for centuries. He contin-
ues to uphold his household’s tradition of distant
rulership, collecting tribute and maintaining small
garrisons of his own soldiers throughout the do-
main. The baron is more interested in holding
courtat his manor than regency, and he seems to be
most content in the darkest winter months, when

 

the snowbound settlements cannot bother him
with their petty problems

Each of Lamordia’s settlements has a mayor,
appointed by a council of wealthy aristocrats, who
in tum are elected by all male Lamordian landown-

 
