 

 

 

ers in the village. The mayor's main responsibility
is to encourage trade and economic ties with other
settlements and domains. While Lamordia’s vil-
lages are neat and orderly, few laws are enforced
even at the local level; the Lamordians manage to
get through daily life with a minimum of conflict
and crime. Nonetheless, should the need arise,
troublemakers are dealt with swiftly by both town
militias and the baron’s enforcers.

Tradeand Diplomacy: Resources —rye, sheep,
cattle, dairy, furs, cod, mackerel, herring, flounder,
beer, sausage, furs, salt, leather goods, furniture,
ships. Coinage — glutton (gp), sable (sp), marten
(cp).

Lamordia has a deserved reputation as a do-
main where travel can be difficult and hazardous.
For this reason, and maybe since it is such a cold,
lonely place, Lamordia’s ties with other lands have
been slow to emerge. Trade continues to expand in
Darkon, Dementlieu and Falkoynia as outsiders
learn of the exceptional quality of Lamordian furs
and handicrafts. Baron von Aubrecker cares noth-
ing for his realm’s political standing in other lands,
and most Lamordians have precious little regard for
the opinions of outsiders anyway.

Realm Magic Rating: Lamordia’s magic rat-
ing is actually a 2, but may drop to 0 wherever a
large segment of the populace dwells. This is due to
their extreme “rationality” and disbelief in magic.

Characters: Classes —fighters, rangers, rogues.
Skills — Craft (alchemy, carpentry, clockmaking,
gunsmithing, leathermaking, shipmaking, wea’
ing), Profession (apothecary, fisher, herdsman,
lumberjack, sailor, tanner), Sense Motive, Sur-
vival. Feats — Endurance, Exotic Weapon
Proficiency (firearms), Open Mind, Skill Focus
(Craft), Toughness, Weapon Focus (pistol, ra-
pier)

 

  

  

 

Markovia

Cultural Level: Stone Age (1). Some of
Markovia’s structures reflect a Medieval (7) Cul-
tural Level.

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Forests, Hills
and Mountains). Markovia (mar-KO-vi-a) is a
tropical island in the northern Sea of Sorrows, a
land of inexplicable lushness amid the cold, eternal
fog. Dense forests blanket the island, echoing with
the cackle of tropical birds. The verdant vegeta-
tion is awash in vibrant flowers and fantastic insect
life. The canopy blots outall light, so that the forest
floor, tangled with vines and tree roots, is perpetu-

 

ally swathed in shadow. Markovia’s interior is
mountainous; the black peaks, draped in green
forest and white wisps of cloud, rise up to touch the
sky. Spectacular waterfalls roar down. the sheer
mountain cliff faces, plummeting into misty, crys-
talline pools. The island's beaches are narrow but
idyllic strips of soft white sand surrounding placid
lagoons. The shore is dotted with ancient basalt
statues, peculiar human figures with their heads
and arms upraised to the sky.

Major Settlements: unknown.

‘The Folk: Population — unknown. Languages
— unknown. Religions — unknown.

Despite its pristine beauty, Markovia is far
from uninhabited. Sailors on the Sea of Sorrows
have spotted structures on the island, including a
monastery of ashen stone on the southern cliffs.
There are regular sightings of “beast-men,” crea-
tures that appear to be animals yet walk on two legs
and wield primitive tools and weapons. These
disturbing encounters aside, many domains are
eager to exploit Markovia’s exotic and valuable
resources. Unfortunately, colonists who have at-
tempted to settle on the island have vanished
without a trace.

 

The Law: No formal government. Markov:
tuler, if any, is unknown. The lack of an obvious
civilization would seem to indicate that the island’s
master is either a recluse or a barbarian king of the
legendary beast-men.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
ploited) — sugarcane, bananas, yams, cassava,
pineapples, coconuts, tuna, pearls, oysters, timber,
eolinet ver Gunmeneetnanet

 

 

Asstated, efforts to establish permanent settle-
ments on Markovia have met with failure. Even
vessels that ply the waters just off the island’s coast
— usually seeking pearls amid the vast oyster beds
— have a disturbing tendency to run aground
suddenly on hidden shoals.

Realm Magic Rating: Most of Markoviashould
have a magic rating between 0 and 2 due to its lack
of civilized settlements. Because of the land’s fea
ful reputation, however, it has acquired a rating of

o

 

Characters: None

Mordent

Cultural Level: Renaissance (9).
Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Plains and Swamps).
