 

Mordent (MOR-dent) is a bleak domain on
the Core’s western coast, a land of fishing hamlets
and desolate, haunted moors. Tracks of dense for-
est still cover much of the countryside, alternating
with low, foggy plains and rolling heaths. Stiff
winds whistle across the eastern moors; some trav-
elers have reported hearing chilling howls carried
on the breezes. At night, curling fog creeps out of
the moors and into the domain’s decrepit grave-
yards, Majestic ruined manors, crumbling and
choked with dark ivy, loom out of the fog. Aban-
doned to the restless spirits of the moors, such
estates are widely regarded as haunted, and the
Mordentish know better than to investigate when
a dim light is spotted in an upper window. In
particular, they avoid the infamous House of
Gryphon Hill, where the dread spirit of Lord Wilfred
Godefroy lurks. Mordent’s shore along the Sea of
Sorrows is rocky and battered by cold winds, the
rugged chalk cliffs rising up a hundred feet or more.
Salt spray perpetually hangs in the air, and bellig-
erentseagulls gather to snatch the bait of fishermen.
It is in Mordent that the broad Arden River finally
joins the Sea of Sorrows, at Arden Bay.

 

Mordent’s seaside communities, huddled in
the bitter ocean winds, are stoic clusters of shanties
and venerable taverns. The whitewashed buildings
are constructed with thick wooden frames, soft
brick and plaster. Wooden plank roofs grace the
humble structures, gray and warped by the sea air.
Every window and door is equipped with sturdy
storm shutters. Narrow tin chimneys puff white
smoke into the sky, and weather vanes spin franti-
cally in the shifting winds. Twisting wooden
staircases descend the steeper cliffs, providing ac-
cess to the humble vessels moored along the docks
below. Mordent is a gray, damp land, its tempera-
tures moderated by the sea; extreme summers and
winters are uncommon.

Major Settlements: Mordentshire (pop.
2,600)

The Folk: Population — 5,500. Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Mordentish*, Falkovnian,
Vaasi. Religions — Ezra, Hala.

The Mordentish are lean, hearty people hard-
ened by generations of fishing and sailing. Their
skin tends to be fair and ruddy, though duskier
tones are not unknown. Mordentish eyes are usu-
ally a faded blue, green or gray. Hair color varies
widely, with flaxen blond and medium brown be-
ing most common. Men cut their hair very short or
grow it past their shoulders, often keeping it in a

neat braid or ponytail. Women grow their hair
exceptionally long, though those with curlier locks
trim it to halfway down their backs. Clothing is
woolen, durable and kept fastidiously neat and
clean whenever possible. Men wear loose shirts
with breeches and high socks; wealthier men also
don waistcoats over their elegant, lacy shirts.
Women wear long dresses close fitting on top and
flaring below the waist. The Mordentish seem to
prefer somber colors, either black and grays or dark
hues of blue, green, yellow and red. Ornamenta-
tion is shunned, though patterns such as checks or
plaids are sometimes seen. Jewelry is rarely worn, as
it is regarded as gaudy even among the nobility.

The Mordentish are simple, practical people
who value common sense and established tradi-
tions. They do things at their own pace and are
prideful of their ways. They are also superstitious
folk who believe whole-heartedly in the super-
natural, particularly the restless dead. They are not
paralyzed by fear, however. The Mordentish have
learned to respectand avoid haunted places lest the
resident spirits seek out the curious in their homes.
This strategy seems to work for them, at least most
of the time. The Mordentish are polite and friendly
toward strangers but always remain somewhat re-
served. They guard their own secrets closely and
have a knack for getting others to talk candidly
without revealing much of anything themselves.

Mordent is the former home of Rudolph van
Richten, the famed monster hunter and scholar of
the macabre, now presumed deceased. Gennifer
and Laurie Weathermay-Foxgrove, granddaugh-
ters of Mordent’s noble lord, currently manage van
Richten’s herbalist shop in Mordentshire. The
twins are themselves acquiring a reputation as
dedicated sages and hunters of the supernatural,
much to the distress of their father. They idolize
their grim uncle, George Weathermay, renowned
as Mordent’s favored prodigal son. A stalwart foe of
evil, Weathermay rides a forlorn path across the
Core in search of the minions of darkness.

 

 

The Law: Hereditary aristocracy. The ailing
Lord Jules Weathermay, patriarch of the
Weathermay family, rules Mordent from his grand
estate, Heather House. The Weathermays have
always governed with a light hand, and despite
Lord Weathermay’s poor health, life rolls on in
Mordent, as consistent as the tides. The
Weathermays are the last prominent noble house-
hold in the domain, the others having fallen to
tragedy and attrition centuries ago. Indeed, the

 
