 

crumbling estates that dot Mordent’s moors testify
to such vanished bloodlines. The Weathermays
have managed to hold on to both their estate and
their lineage, though their presence is barely felt
outside of the village of Mordentshire. Lord
Weathermay rarely pronounces any laws; he merely
collects regular taxes and keeps a close eye on his
lands. Mordent’s villages are essentially autono-
mous, administrating their own laws and militias
Mayors and other civic servants are elected from
among the male property owners, who remain
dutifully mindful of how their decisions affect the
poor. ThemayorofMordentshiré, Daniel Foxgrove,
is the widower of Lord Weathermay’s daughter and
father of Gennifer and Laurie.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — barley,
wheat, hops, sheep, cattle, dairy, flounder, sole,
sardines, lobsters, oysters, challe, clay, ships, Coin-
age —mournepiece (gp), weepstone (sp), saltpenny
(cp).

Fishing provides an important backbone for
Mordent’s economy, though sheep herding is also
vital to the domain. Mordent does brisk trade with
Dementlieu, where demand for seafood and wool
provides Mordent with access to high culture and
new inventions. Borca and Richemulot are also
important trading partners. All four domains have

 

S,

 

 

 

agreed to a mutual defense pact to protect against
potential threats from militaristic Falkovnia. For a
domain of such small size and with a predomi-
nantly agrarian landscape, Mordent is a familiar
land to folk throughout the Core. This may be due
to its reputation as the rural, slow-paced sister to
Dementlieu.

Realm Magic Rating: Mordent has a magic
rating of 3, though certain areas may suppress this,
while others raise it up to 5.

Characters: Classes — bards, clerics, fighters,
rogues, sorcerers. Skills — Balance, Craft
(clockmaking, shipmaking, weaving), Gather In-
formation, Knowledge (monster lore, religion),
Profession (fisher, herbalist, herdsman, sailor,
scribe), Swim, Use Rope. Feats — Cold One,
Ethereal Empathy, Exotic Weapon Proficiency
(firearms), Ghostsight, Haunted, Skill Focus (mon-
ster lore), Weapon Focus (pistol, rapier).

Necropolis
Cultural Level: Iron Age (3). Necropolis was
a Chivalric (8) domain prior to the Requiem.
Landscape: No Ecology (Temperate Settled
Area). Necropolis (ne-KRAW-pol-iss) was once a
bustling metropolis called II Aluk, the most prosper-
ous city in the domain of Darkon. That lofty honor

\

 

 
