   

was ripped from the city when Darkon was struck by
the Requiem. Situated at the epicenter of the cata-
clysm, I Aluk was victim to a horrifying fate: every
living person in the city was instantly slain and
reborn as an undead creature. Today, Necropolis is a
city of the dead populated entirely by the unliving.
Every living creature that enters Necropolis dies,
only to immediately rise as the city’s newest inhabit-
ant. Although marred by vandalism and neglect in
places, Necropolis stands as it did at the time of the
Requiem, an undead mockery of its former life.

Major Settlements: None. Necropolis itself is
a single settlement.

The Folk: Population— none; 26,800 undead.
Languages — Darkonese*, Halfling, Gnome,
Lamordian, Falkovnian. Religions — none. The
creature named Death is revered like a god, though
it has no clerics or organized church.

Although it has been swept clean of the living,
Necropolis does not stand still. Those who have
observed the city from afar report that the streets
still bustle with activity. Unfortunately, the living
can only guess what sort of unfathomable tasks
occupy the walking dead.

‘The Law: Undead despotism. Anentityknown
only as Death rules Necropolis, and all undead give
homage before its unholy might. Virtually nothing
is known about Death, save that it seems to be the
only force that can stand before Darkon’s wizard-
king, Azalin Rex. The undead of Necropolis obey
Death unwaveringly, which lends credence to the
rumor that the undead tyrant is death itself, the
very embodiment of mortality and finality.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — none.
Coinage — none, though Darkonian currency still
can be found in Necropolis in abundance.

No sane living creature wants anything to do
with Necropolis. The city has become a gangre-
nous blight on the face of Darkon, a hindrance to
tradeandachallenge to Azalin’s power. Necropolis’s
population has only grown asa trickle of foolhardy
or ignorant travelers join the ranks of the unliving.
Astonishing rumors are whispered throughout
Darkon that the city’s undead have developed a
complex society divided into factions and sects
that no living creature could fathom.

Realm Magic Rating: Necropolis’s magic rat-
ing is 6 for any spells usable by undead. Alll others
function as if in a magic rating 1 environment, if
anyone could remain alive long enough to attempt
to cast such spells.

Characters: None.

Che Nocturnal Gea

Cultural Level: Varies from island to island.
Most are Chivalric (8) or Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Aquatic).
Most islands have Full Ecology (Temperate For-
ests, Hills, Plains and Swamps). The treacherous
Nocturnal Sea lies to the west of the Core, its cold
waves lapping on the beaches below the western
plateau. Weather on the sea is violent and erratic.
Gray storm clouds constantly race across the sky,
rumbling with lightning. Savage storms blowing
freezing rain and sleet can whip up in an instant,
battering ships mercilessly. Near islands, jagged
shoals lurk beneath the waters, posing a deadly
threat to all but the most experienced mariners.
The perpetually overcast sky makes navigation
difficult for vessels without magnetic compasses.
No sun, moon or stars peek through to provide
bearings, forcing sailors to navigate by sparse land-
marks and instinct.

 

 

 

 

The Nocturnal Sea is dotted with islands,
though many of these are tiny and uninhabited.
Known islands include Liffe, a rustic isle of farmers
and musicians; sober Graben and Knammen; L’ile
de la Tempete with its mysterious lighthouse; the
ominous Isle of the Ravens; and frigid, forsaken
Todstein.

 

Major Settlements: Graben — Graben (pop.
1,900), Kirchenheim (pop. 300), Knammen (pop.
300), Seeheim (pop. 300); Liffe— Armeikos (pop.
3,000), Claveria (pop.400), Moondale (pop. 1,600).

The Folk: Population— 14,900. Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages —Grabenite, Sithican, Vaasi.
Religions — the Lawgiver, Ezra.

Although vessels from throughout the eastern
Core frequent the Nocturnal Sea, sailors from
other lands rarely choose to settle on the sea’s bleak
islands. Settlements are scattered, wind-beaten
outposts of civilization in an otherwise vast and
forbidding ocean. Few generalizations can be made
about the islanders that dwell there, save that they
have remarkable perseverance to survive amid
such bleak waters. They are protective of their
privacy and autonomy but remain receptive to
commerce with outsiders. The appearance of the
islanders varies widely, and while many are of Nova
Vaasan or Darkonese descent, others are of unique
and isolated ethnic groups.

The Law: No formal government. Nodomain
claims the Nocturnal Sea as its own, though mari-
time tradition holds that a realm’s sovereignty
extends a half-mile out to Since safe sea lanes

 
