have not yet been established in the Nocturnal
Sea, control of maritime traffic is not seen as an
asset in most domains.

A handful of islands have their own rulers, but
government is usually decentralized and informal.
Liffe is the realm of Baron Evensong, a highborn
bard who prizes his island’s independence. On
Graben and Knammen, settlement elders called
deacons oversee governance with the mandate of
the Grabens, a wealthy merchant family. The
masters of the Nocturnal Sea’s other bleak islands
are unknown and, in the judgment of superstitious
sailors, perhaps best kept shrouded in mystery.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — potatoes,
corn, sheep, dairy, cod, herring, mackerel, lobsters,
seals, talc, salt, ships. Coinage — none. Trade is
conducted through barter on most islands, but
merchants in Liffe have begun to deal in the
currencies of Darkon and Nova Vaasa.

Although exceedingly hostile to seafaring, the
Nocturnal Sea nonetheless draws many merchants
and explorers into its gray embrace. Inhabitants of
the more hospitable islands are eager to trade with
mainlanders, and the opportunities have been worth
the risks to merchants in the eastern Core. Like-
wise, the possibility of discovering new lands beyond

 

the Mists has drawn many a brave captain to
plunge into the sea’s uncharted waters.

Realm Magic Rating: The magic rating in the
Nocturnal Sea varies almost as much as the islands
and their inhabitants. Travelers can find any rating
from a2 through 5 in different areas. Liffe usually
maintains a stable level 3 in much of its area.

Characters: Classes — bards, fighters, rogues.
Skills — Balance, Climb, Craft (carpentry,
shipmaking, weaving), Knowledge (nature), Per-
form (ballad, harp, lute, ode), Profession (farmer,
fisher, sailor), Swim, Use Rope, Survival. Feats —
Cold One, Dodge (plus derivatives), Expertise
(plus derivatives), Skill Focus (Survival), Weapon
Focus (rapier).

Nova Vaasa

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Plains). Nova Vaasa (NO-va VAH-sa),
situated on a plateau in the southeastern Core, isa
land dominated by sweeping grasslands and crush-
ing urban poverty. The plains are rocky and
trackless, but the grasses that cover them are short,
tamed by the constant grazing of horses. The wind
whistles eerily across the steppes, which are dotted

 

ae

 
