   

with rocky uplands and copses. For the most part,
however, the domain is exceptionally flat, stretch-
ing from the Balinok Mountains in the west to the
Nocturnal Sea in the east. Crumbling stone ruins
and humble horse ranches break up the landscape

 

Broad rivers meander across Nova Vaasa’s steppes,
cutting deep gorges through the plateau where they
reach the Nocturnal Sea. The domain enjoys ac-
cess to numerous important waterways, including
the Dnar, the Borchava, the Ivlis and the Saniset.
The eastern coast is rugged and adequate natural

 

ports are rare; the flat plateau drops down to treach-

erous bluffs and narrow, rocky beaches.

 

Near settlements, the plains are cleared for
vast farms needed to feed the domain's swelling
population. The cities are nightmarish scenes of
dreadful urban squalor. The streets throng with
beggars, and the ditches are piled with refuse and
plague-bloated corpses. The press of people and
beasts of burden is positively suffocating. Buildings
are constructed of reddish beige brick on founda-
tions of rough gray stone, with tiny windows and
gabled roofs of golden-yellow shingles. Nova Vaasa’s
weather can be brutal during winter, but spring
always brings mild warmth and wildflowers.

Major Settlements: Arbora (pop. 4,500),
Bergovitsa (pop. 6,600), Egertus (pop. 3,800),
Kantora (pop. 16,500), Liara (pop. 2,600)

The Folk: Population —67,700. Humans 91%,
Halflings 5%, Gnomes 3%, Other 1%. Languages
— Vaasi*, Halfling, Gnome, Balok, Darkonese
Religions — the Lawgiver*

Nova Vaasans are rugged people of average
stature with wide hips and stout limbs gained
through generations of horsemanship. Their facial
features are distinctive, featuring angular chins,
prominent cheekbones and wide, full-lipped
mouths. Skin color is generally fair and ruddy, but
Nova Vaasans with pale olive or sallow skin are not
unusual. Eyes are commonly dark green or gray.
Haircolor ranges from dirty blond to black, though
darker colors are most common. Women grow

 

their straight hair exceptionally long, often past

their waists, and young girls work these tresses into

 

two long braids. Men, meanwhile, prefer to keep
their hair cut to just below the shoulder. Men ofall
stations grow long mustaches, which they wax into
stiff curls.

Nova Vaasan clothing varies greatly with so-
cial class. The garb of commoners is simple and

 
