 

often poorly maintained. Men wear trousers and
long shirts, sometimes with a vest. Women wear
blouses with culottes and often cover their heads
with kerchiefs. Commoner clothing is never dyed,
only natural dirty white or brown, and is patched
repeatedly. Most commoners wear cloth wrappings
instead of proper footwear. Aristocrats stand out

from the unwashed masses in their brightly col-
ored, meticulous vestments. Male nobles wear flared
riding breeches with tall black boots and finely
tailored coats trimmed with lace. Most men wear
neckerchiefs bearing their family crests, and felt
caps are popular among older men. Women go
about in velvet riding skirts with black boots and
billowing blouses. Noblewomen never wear hats,
instead wrapping themselves in gauzy scarves
trimmed with tinkling bells and coins. Clothing
dyed in vibrant shades of red, blue and purple
predominates, and stripes and spiral patterns are
quite popular. Jewelry is usually limited to thick
bracelets and earrings.

The class divide in Nova Vaasa is wide and
deeply entrenched. The poor make up the vast
majority of the population. These people are truly
destitute and miserable, afflicted by hunger, dis-
ease and crime. The aristocracy, meanwhile, is
comparatively tiny in size but extremely wealthy.
Five families —the Bolshniks, Chekivs, Hiregaards,
Rivtoffs and Vistins — own nearly all property in
the domain. A very small middle class has begun to
emerge in recent years, composed of civil servants,
merchants and underworld types. Despite its wealth
and size, Nova Vaasa has the feeling of a society on
the brink of decline. Vice and violent crime are
rampant in the overpopulated cities, while the
nobles become wealthier each day on the backs of
the poor. The commoners are concerned only with
surviving and drowning their misery in vices. Most
nobles dwell in their own arrogant, anodyne world,
believing that commoners are subhuman beasts of
burden to be used and abused at whim. Surpris-
ingly, rebellion and unrest are unheard of, due
primarily to the doctrines of the Lawgiver’s church.

The Law: Hereditary aristocracy. Prince
Othmar Bolshnik, the patriarch of the Bolshnik
family, currently rules Nova Vaasa. Traditionally,
Nova Vaasa’s leadership passed from the head of
one noble family to the next every five years.
Unfortunately, Othmar has not relinquished his
mantle in over twenty-five years, a fact that has
caused undeniable tension among the five ruling
families. Such is Othmar’s military and political

 

 

  

 

Se ee

power, however, that none dares attempt to oust
him.

Othmar isa vain and ruthless ruler focused on
cementing the Bolshniks’ dominance among the
noble families and maintaining the status quo in
Nova Vaasan society at large. Each noble family
governs its lands independently, however, and
Othmar only rarely steps in to collect tribute.
Nobles rule harshly and without pity, though the
Hiregaard family treats the commoners in its lands
relatively fairly. For the most part, law and justice
do not exist in Nova Vaasan society as they do in
other realms; there is no recourse for those who
have been wronged criminally or privately. Nobles
care nothing for issues that do not directly involve
their interests. Thus, the streets and plains of Nova
Vaasa are largely lawless. Settlements have only
weak civic government, run by those who have
proven themselves loyal to the local family. Each
noble family maintains a small private army that
includes cavalry, though the Bolshnik forces are by
far the largest and best equipped.

Othmar’s only rival as the master of Nova
Vaasa is not a fellow noble at all, but a mysterious
criminal overlord known only as Malken. This
shadowy figure isrumored to control all that occurs
in the underworld of Liara and a good deal of illicit
activity elsewhere in the domain as well. Malken is
practically a bogeyman to the poor of Nova Vaasa.
Inthe darkest alleyways of the domain, itis Malken’s
word, not Othmar’s, that is the law.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
corn, millet, barley, oats, rye, cabbage, beets, pota-
toes, apples, pears, sunflowers, hemp, flax, horses,
chickens, cod, herring, wine, gypsum, amber, chalk,
salt, leather goods, furniture, ships. Coinage —
bridle (gp), spur (sp), horseshoe (cp).

Nova Vaasa is a significant economic power,
though the Ith generated from its resources
benefits only the five noble families. Thus, while
trade with other lands expands, the crushing pov-
erty that most Nova Vaasans endure only gets
worse. Gambling, liquor and flophouses have also
begun to take their toll on the domain’s productiv-
ity. Under the direction of Malken, underworld
activity has become organized, and it may be only
a matter of time until the nobles begin to feel its
pinch.

Most trade is conducted with Barovia, Tepest,
Hazlan and the islands of the Nocturnal Sea. De-
mand for Nova Vaasan goods, however, spurs
merchants to trek through the Balinoks each spring

   

 

 
