 

 

from the western Core. Nova Vaasa’s most famous
exports are its horses, prized throughout the Core
for their strength, speed, obedience and beauty.
Although the noble families have legendary stables
and lineages, the finest horses seem to come from
tiny rural ranches.

Realm Magic Rating: Due to the squalor and
misery of most of the population, the magic rating
of Nova Vaasa is only a 2.

Characters: Classes —clerics, fighters, rogues.
Skills — Craft (leatherworking, shipmaking),
Gather Information, Handle Animal, Intimidate,
Knowledge (nobility and royalty, religion), Profes-
sion (farmer, fisher, herdsman, rancher, sailor, stable
hand, tanner), Ride, Sleight of Hand. Feats —
Jaded, Mounted Combat (plus derivatives), Quick
Draw, Skill Focus (Ride), Toughness, Weapon
Focus (heavy flail, pistol).

Richemulot

Cultural Level: Chivalric (8).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Plains). In the bustling cities of
Richemulot (REESH-muh-loh), secrets are traded
like so much gold, and unseen foes slink about on
clandestine missions. Situated in the east-central
Core, Richemulot is a land of pristine forests and
gentle river valleys. The forests are sun-dappled
places full of massive trees and fragrant shrubs and
forbs. The mighty Musarde River winds through
the domain, providing a vital trade route. The
landscape is largely undeveloped, broken only by
isolated cottages and farms, because most of the
domain's population is concentrated in its three
large settlements. While travelers may not en-
countera single soul in rural Richemulot, the cities
are bustling with people. Strangely, these ancient
settlements retain an empty atmosphere; vacant
houses, shops and other structures hint that the
cities could support up to three times as many
inhabitants. Not even the Richemuloise know
why their cities stand abandoned; the original
inhabitants of these silent avenues are a mystery.
Regardless, they were marvelous builders. The nar-
row streets are lined with beautiful facades of
creamy stone, though the buildings are chipped
and worn in places. The high rooftops are covered
with thin, square wooden shingles and dotted with
narrow, soaringspires. The citiesare further blessed
with elaborate sewer systems that twist deep into
the earth. Richemulot’s climate is temperate but
mild; heavy snows are a rare occurrence in winter.

 

  

 

 

Major Settlements: Mortigny (8,200), Pont-
a-Museau (pop. 16,500), Ste. Ronges (6,500).

The Folk: Population —45,300. Humans 93%,
Halflings 5%, Half-Vistani 1%, Other 1%. Lan-
guages —Mordentish, Halfling, Balok, Falkovnian.
Religions — Ezta, Hala

The Richemuloise tend to be wiry folk, short
in stature but athletic. Their skin tone is fair,
ranging from milky pale to light tan. Blue eyes are
quitecommon, butshades of green and grayare also
seen, Richemuloise hair is sleek and straight, with
colors running from honey blond to dark brown.
Black hair is seen only among noble families. Long
hair is traditional for both genders, with men
preferring to keep theirs in a single ponytail or
braid. Excessive facial hair is considered barbaric
for men, but thin, well-groomed mustaches are
widespread. All Richemuloise dress comfortably
and neatly, regardless of social status. Men and
women alike wear loose shirts, which men keep
open in front during warmer months. Men wear
baggy trousers, women knee-length skirts. High,
hard-soled boots are considered standard footwear
for city folk. Daily clothing is rarely patterned or
decorated, and colors tend to be drab whites, grays
and beiges. Jewelry is rarely worn, even among the
nobility. For festivals and other special occasions,
men of all classes don elegant waistcoats, while
women wear flowing dresses that leave little to the
imagination.

The Richemuloise put little stock in the super-
ficial. They believe that a man’s significance is
defined by what he knows: his skills and knowl-
edge, and how he applies those assets. This attitude
has created what seems to a remarkably un-strati-
fied society. Despite the size of the domain’s cities,
no grubby beggars or other destitute poor are seen
on the streets. Neither are there aristocrats clad in
opulent finery and attended by entourages of ser-
vants. Indeed, almost all Richemuloise seem to be
moderately comfortable. Property ownership isnot
asocial watermark, asany Richemuloise family can
take up residence in an abandoned building and
call it home. Unlike many domains, Richemulot
has a significant immigrant population. Folk from
other domains often flee oppression ot poverty in
their homeland in search of the opportunities and
free property in Richemulot’s cities.

In truth, it is not affluence that defines the
nobles of Richemulot, but knowledge. While no-
bility is hereditary, the aristocratic families hold
their power in the form of information, which is

 

 

  

 
