  

brokered and exchanged like a commodity among
the Richemuloise elite. A prominent noble can
wreak social and economic havoc with a single
nugget of gossip. A cobbler who happens on an
astonishing secret can become a noble overnight if
he knows how to properly use this new influen
The intrigues of Richemuloise courtly life are diz-
zying in their complexity, and few outsiders could
keep up with either their nuances or pace. Trading
in knowledge can be a lethal pursuit, however, as
more than one noble has buried a secret forever
with a dagger or vial of poison.

The Law: Hereditary aristocracy. Richemulot
is dominated by the Reinier family of Pont-a-
Museau and informally ruled by its matriarch,
Jacqueline Reinier. Jacqueline is widely regarded as
one of the most brilliant and ruthless Richemuloise
nobles, and few of her subjects would argue that the
domain’s fate could be in more capable hands.
Indeed, while Jacqueline is undeniably conniving
and conceited, she hasa strong patriotic streak and
believes firmly in a vision of Richemulot as a
powerful nation with its own identity. She encour-
ages outsiders to settle in the domain, asking only
that they own a weapon and swear fealty to
Richemulot itself. Richemulot has no community
militias, but Jacqueline expects all Richemuloise
to be prepared to defend the realm, especially
against the ever-present threat of Falkovnia.

The hereditary nobles of Richemulot have
absolute control over most aspects of daily life in
the domain. Aristocrats arbitrate civil disputes and
regulate trade, and enforcers retained by individual
noble families keep the peace. The nobles exercise
their authority lightly, however. Power can be a
transitory thing in Richemulot, and few nobles
want to risk overstepping their bounds and finding
themselves disgraced by a vicious rumor.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
oats, barley, apples, potatoes, dairy, cloth, furni-
ture, leather, ceramics, glass, weapons, iron and tin
goods. Coinage — scandal (gp), secret (sp), rumor
(cp).

Richemulot is a growing power, and its eco-
nomicand political connections with other domains
are expandingaccordingly. Richemuloise city dwell-
ers produce a wide variety of crafted goods, all of
which are prized in other lands for their aesthetic
beauty and durability. In particular, trade with
Borea, Dementlieu and Mordent is brisk.
Richemulot has also entered into a mutual defense

 

 

 

 

 

pact with these domains to protect against inva-
sion from Falkovnia.

Realm Magic Rating: Richemulot’s magic
rating varies between 3 and 4.

Characters: Classes — bards, clerics, fighters,
roplies, wizards, Sialls — Bluff, Craft (gunsmithing,
locksmithing, stonemasonry, weaponsmithing),
Diplomacy, Forgery, Gather Information, Knowl-
edge (nobility and royalty), Profession (apothecary,
bookkeeper, scribe), Sense Motive. Feats — Alert-
ness, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (firearms),
Expertise (plus derivatives), Iron Will, Skill Focus
(Gather Information), Voice of Wrath, Weapon
Pocuel pineal canien)s

The Sea of Sorrows

Cultural Level: Varies from island to island.
Most are Chivalric (8) or Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Aquatic).
Most islands have Full Ecology (Temperate For-
ests, Hills and Plains). The Sea of Sorrows lies to
the west of the Core, a frigid expanse of gray ocean
that stretches out into the Mists. Although storms
are not frequent on the sea, the winds are unpre-
dictable, often picking up or dying suddenly. Where
the air is calm, thick fog banks cover the water's
surface. Ship captains try to keep their speed low,
as obstacles and other vessels can appear out of
nowhere in the haze. Daylight is weak and sickly on
the sea, while night is as black and oppressive as a
tomb. Without stars to guide them, sailors find
navigation exceedingly difficult, though wealthier
captains have benefited from the magnetic com-
pass in recent years. Clever navigators have learned
to set a straight course within sight of the Core’s
western coast and maintain it as best they can until
land is again spotted. The sea has something of a
haunted reputation; tales of ghost ships, particu-
larly the legendary Relentless, are common among
veteran sailors.

Numerous islands dot the Sea of Sorrows, but
most are sparsely inhabited, if at all. The largest is
Markovia (see above), a tropical isle in the north-
ern sea. Other known islands include pastoral
Ghastria, rocky Blaustein and Dominia, home to
the Heinfroth Asylum for the Mentally Disturbed.

Major Settlements: Ghastria — East Riding
(pop. 600)

The Folk: Population — 1,300. Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Mordentish, Lamordian,
Darkonese. Religions — Ezra, Hala.

 
