Prt ee eg

The Sea of Sorrows has few permanent inhab-
itants. Although ships carrying merchants and
explorers constantly ply her fog-bound waters, the
sea is only a highway for these souls. The scattered
folk who dwell on the sea’s islands are hardy,
stalwart people. Most are of Mordentish or
Lamordian descent, but some hail from more dis-
tant lands. It is hard to speak generally about the
sea’s island inhabitants. Some, such as the simple
farmers of Ghastria, warmly welcome any contact
with the Core. Others, such as the thugs and
ruffians of Blaustein, are likely to brutally attack
those foolish enough to land on their island. As a
whole, however, islanders tend to be survivors.
Isolation from the Core has taught them self-
reliance and honed their maritime skills.

The Law: No formal government. No do-
mains claim the Sea of Sorrows as their own.
Traditionally, a realm’s territory extends to a half-
mile beyond its shores. The rest of the sea is
regarded as neutral, best left to the islanders and
ghosts.

Each inhabited island is governed differently,
but it is usually the will or charisma of a single
leader that maintains law and order. Ghastria is
ruled by the Marquis Stezan d’Polarno, an aristo-

 

crat who throws annual galas for nobles who make
the journey to his island. Blaustein is controlled by
the dread Bluebeard, a secretive tyrant who com-
mands fervent loyaltyamong his subjects. Dominia’s
only settlement is the asylum of Daclaud Heinfroth,
a renowned institution for treating those plagued
by madness.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — potatoes,
turnips, sheep, cattle, dairy, herring, cod, tuna,
sardines, salmon, lobsters, whales, wine. Coinage
—none. A smattering of obscure coins pass through
some settlements, but trade is conducted through.
barter on most islands.

For the Core’s western coastal domains, the
Sea of Sorrows has proven to be a valuable source
of food and a gateway to distant lands. Unfortu-
nately, the perpetual cloak of fog has also created a
prime hunting ground for pirates. When tales of
ghostships and haunted isles highlight such threats,
only the most courageous captains dare to brave
the sea’s dangers. With the exception of Ghastria,
where foodstuffs from the Core fetch impressive
prices, markets on the islands have not generally
been profitable for seafaring merchants. Most ves-
sels quickly leave waters close to the Core, seeking
out the exotic lands beyond the Mists.

a eel
