 

Realm Magic Rating: The magic rating in the
Sea of Sorrows varies between a 2 and a 4.

Characters: Classes — fighters, rogues. Skills
— Balance, Climb, Craft (carpentry, shipmaking,
weaving), Knowledge (monster lore, nature), Pro-
fession (farmer, fisher, sailor), Swim, Use Rope,
Survival. Feats — Back to the Wall, Cold One,
Dodge (plus derivatives), Expertise (plus deriva-
tives), Haunted, Skill Focus (Survival), Weapon
Focus (rapier)

Che Shadow Rift

Cultural Level: Unknown.

Landscape: Unknown. The Shadow Rift is a
vast chasm that festers like a wound in the center
of the Core. Its sheer cliffs drop away abruptly from
the neighboring domains, as if the land has simply
crumbled into nothingness. The Blackmist River
in Tepest cascades off the precipice, roaring into
the yawning void below. Roughly two hundred feet
below the Rift’s edge, black vapors swirl in hyp-
notic patterns, an unsettling, ebon reflection of the
Mists themselves. These tenebrous vapors conceal
whatever lies at the bottom of the Rift. If any
mortals have descended into that abyss and re-
turned, they have not revealed what secrets the
Rift may hold.

Major Settlements: Unknown.

The Folk: Population — unknown. There is
little reason to believe that anything at all inhabits
the Shadow Rift. Nonetheless, wild tales persist of
various creatures emerging from the Rift and prey-
ingonnearby communities—shapeshifters, ghostly
humanoids, demonic berserkers and myriad other
horrors.

The Law: Unknown. If the Shadow Rift is
indeed, as some folk have speculated, a gateway to
another world, then it must be analien and lightless
realm. Few can guess what sort of otherworldly
tyrants rule in such a place.

Tradeand Diplomacy: Resources —unknown.
Coinage — unknown.

Over a decade ago, a Tepestani noble funded
the construction of a staircase that would have led
down into the Shadow Rift. Creation of this De-
scent, as it was called, was halted when workers
who entered the black mists never emerged. To
date, there have been no further organized efforts
to explore the Rift’s mysteries.

Realm Magic Rating: Unknown. Those few
scholars who posit that such a thing as a magical

 

resonance exists believe the rating to be 5 or 6, but
only for whatever unknown creatures inhabit the
Rift.

Characters: None.

Sithicus

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Hills). Sithicus (SITH-uh-cuss), located in
the southwestern Core, is a shattered elven king-
dom, perhaps the only domain in the Land of Mists
populated primarily by nonhumans. As might be
expected, it is a land of ancient forests where the
dense, leafy boughs above blot out the sun. The
wilds are overgrown and treacherous, reeking con-
stantly of wet decay and sickly sweet resin. Patches
of briars and nettles form dense snarls, and the
forest floor is slick with rotting leaves and moss.
Mottled ivy and gray ferns grow everywhere, and
pools of fetid water gather algae in the hollows.
Fallen logs litter the forest floors, encrusted with
florid, poisonous fungi. Rocky uplands peek out of
the sweeping forest landscape here and there, pro-
viding roosts for great, russet eagles. The Musarde
River and its tributaries cut through the domain’s
gently rolling terrain. Near the center of the do-
main is the jagged maw of the Great Chasm. Out of
this sheer canyon rises a black peak topped by the
ruins of Nedragaard Keep, the fortress of Sithicus’s
dwarven tyrant. Shattered three years ago in the
Hour of Screaming Shadows, the cracked ruins
nowjut from the earth like blackened teeth. Ravens
wheel forlornly about the towering shards, and
some elves swear they have glimpsed mournful
shades drifting around the ruins at night.

Elegant architecture was once prized by the
elves of Sithicus, but today the domain’s settle-
ments are crumbling. The wondrous elven wood
and crystal masonries are neglected and covered
with ivy. Twisting towers ofliving wood are blighted
with insect galls and rot, and the gardens stand
choked with thistles and brambles. Roads that
once glittered like an evening sky are dull and
crumbling. The arcane libraries slowly rot under an
assault of mildew and silverfish, yet the elven
wizards seem oblivious. Temples to forgotten dei-
ties are charred and blasted as if from lightning, the
holy names stricken.

The climate in Sithicus is temperate but mild.
Although the sun often blazes cruelly in the late
summer months, the elves are sheltered by the cool
shadows of the forest.

     
