 

 

Major Settlements: Har-Thelen (pop. 500),
Hroth (pop. 900), Mal-Erek (pop. 500).
The Folk: Population — 4,300; Elves 96%,

Half-Elves 2%, Humans 1%, Other 1%. Languages
— Sithican*, Vaasi, Balok, Mordentish. Religions
zra, Hala:

 

 

The overwhelming majority of Sithicans are
high elves, though these Sithican elves speak their
own unique language. Over the years, human mer-
chants and craftsmen from Kartakass have settled
in Sithicus, often marrying into elven houses of low
station. Predictably, there is a growing population
of half-elves in the domain, though more presti-
gious houses spurn these outcasts. Rumors persist of
atiny settlement of halflings in the Iron Hills of the
northeast, but the region is considered by the elves
to be haunted.

Sithican elves are grim, cold folk compared to
the high elves found where in the Land of
Mists. Their clothing is drab, the preferred colors
being white, beige, ash and gray-green. The deep
adoration of nature and beauty is gone, replaced by
solemn apathy. Sithican elves believe that their
culture will survive, as it has done for centuries, no
matter what troubles befall it. The domain’s wicked
monarchs may rise and fall, the petty problems of
other realms may come and go, but Sithicus itself
will endure. Denial tinges the elves’ cold arro-
gance; all around, the wonders of their culture are
crumbling. They cling to their traditions dourly,
draining them of meaning and suffocating their
society for reasons they can no longer remember.
Outsiders are treated with disdain or even hostility
by the Sithican elves, who remain haughty and
suspicious toward all other races and lands. Even
humans who have dwelled in Sithicus for a genera-
tion or more are considered second-class citizens.

The Law: Despotic monarchy and aristoc-
racy. Azrael, adwarven despot with unholy powers,
tules Sithicus through sheer fear. The dwarf re-
cently seized control of the domain from the
black-hearted knight who once ruled from
Nedragaard Keep. Although the knight was unde-
niably harsh to the Sithican elves, he cared little
for his role as their monarch. Azrael has proved a
much more monstrous tyrant. The dwarf governs
erratically, appearing periodically in elven settle-
ments, demanding tribute and slaughtering any
who displease him. No explanation or excuse is
ever given. The Sithican elves hate Azrael passion-
ately but fear his wrath even more. The dwarf king

 

commands troops of undead soldiers and is widely
rumored to be a supernatural creature himself.
Speculation abounds regarding Azrael’s relation-
ship with Sithicus’s Vistani, whom he seems to
envy, fear and hate.

Azrael’s presence aside, the Sithican elves
adhere to the traditional loose elven aristocracy.
Without a true elven monarch to unite them,
however, relationships between settlements and
noble houses can become tense and bitter. Each
settlement is ruled by the word of the eldest elven
noble, who governs lightly. There are houses for
each task or role in elven society, though some are
much more prestigious and powerful than others.
The noble, ranger and wizard houses are particu-
larly prominent. Since the elves value theirfreedom
above all else, laws are rare. Protecting the re-
sources of the forest and the privacy of elven
settlements are the primary priorities. Sithican
militias are small but well trained and diversified,
with fighters, rangers and wizards in their ranks.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — oats, cab-
bage, carrots, turnips, peppers, squash, peaches,
grapes, sheep, goats, wine, spirits, timber, furs, salt,
gems, crystal, cloth. Coinage — rose (gp), crown
(sp), sword (cp).

Although suspicious and insular, Sithican elves
have reaped the benefits of expanding trade with
neighboring domains, particularly Kartakass. Thus,
reluctantly and gradually, contact with other lands
has increased. Merchants are eager to acquire the
rare vegetables, spirits, hardwoods and handicrafts
the elves produce. Tiny settlements of human
traders and laborers have begun to appear in
Sithican territory, which angers the more isola-
tionist elven houses. Azrael does not discourage
such economic colonialism, however, as it benefits
his own coffers.

Realm Magic Rating: Sithicus has a magic
rating between 3 and 4 due to the high number of
wizards in the realm.

 

Characters: Classes — bards, druids, fighters,
rangers, wizards. Skills — Bluff, Craft (bowmaking,
carpentry, gemcutting, weaving), Handle Animal,
Intimidate, Knowledge (arcana, nature, nobility
and royalty), Profession (herbalist, scribe), Sur-
vival. Feats — Dodge (plus derivatives), Lunatic,
Point Blank Shot (plusderivatives), Reincarnated,
Track, Two-Weapon Fighting, Weapon Focus
(composite longbow, longsword).
