 

me

  

   

Cepest

Cultural Level: Early Medieval (6)

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Hills). The domain of Tepest (TEP-est) is a
land of dark, menacing forests where the folk are
beset by malicious, creeping evils and paranoid
hysteria. These woodlands ate eerie, preternatural
places where shadows persist throughout the day
and wisps of fog cling to the ground. The ancient
trees are gnarled and grotesque, their branches and
roots seeming to grasp at interlopers. Toadstools
and mosses carpet the muddy ground, and weird
sounds echo through the thickets. The forests seem
sinister even by the light of day, and at night, they
teem with flickering shadows, glinting yellow eyes
and the eerie glow of St. Elmo’s fire. Travelers
sometimes stumble upon unnatural copses of trees
that are perpetually wrapped in spring bloom, au-
tumn color or winter snow. Rivers and the East
Timori Road divide the forests, and the Tepestani
have names for them all — Wytchwood,
Brujamonte, Goblinwood and so forth. The black
waters of Lake Kronov, in western Tepest, provide
easy fishing throughout the year, as they never
freeze over completely. Fishermen must keep a
watchful eye out for the water monster known as
the Avanc and avoid the haunted shores of Castle
Island.

 

Villages are cozy little points of light amid the
forest gloom. Most buildings in the domain are
crudely constructed of smooth stones. The conical
toofs are thatched with hay or peat, with central,
wobbly chimneys. The humblest homes are merely
sod huts built atop shallow pits. Nobles, mean-
while, dwell in grim keeps that are little more than
featureless monoliths ofstone surrounded by wicked
palisades. The domain’s most beautiful structures
are the small stone temples dedicated to Belenus.
The splendid chapels are open to the sky, as if
anticipating a glimpse of the god’s face through the
ashen sky. Stylized stone images of Belenus’s solar
disc adorn villages throughout the domain.

Tepest’s climate is temperate but moderate;
truly brutal winters or scorching summers are un-
usual. Most days are overcast and foggy, the sun
shining weakly through the gray haze.

Major Settlements: Briggdarrow (pop. 300),
Kellee (pop. 3,700), Viktal (pop. 3,600).

The Folk: Population— 15,500; Humans 99%,
Other 1%; 2,900 goblins. Languages —Tepestani*,
Darkonese, Vaasi, Sylvan. Religions — Belenus*,
Ezra, the Lawgiver.

The Tepestani are muscular and handsome
people, if slightly short in stature. Their skin is fair
and frequently freckled, and eye color is green or
blue. Hair color can range from strawberry blond
through dark brown, but most Tepestani are true
redheads, with auburn to carrot-orange hair. Men
keep their hair cut to just above the shoulder, but
women prefer to grow their tresses exceptionally
long, especially if it is naturally curly. Many men
wear full beards and mustaches, either wild and
unkempt or braided. Clothing is simple and du-
rable: trousers and baggy shirts for men, long skirts
and blouses for women. Clothing is secured with
cloth cords rather than fasteners or belts. Folk wrap
themselves in dense, layered furs in the winter
months. Earthen colors, especially browns and
dark greens, predominate in local garb, Decoration
or other adornment on clothing is rare. Wealthier
folk stand out with their high leather boots and
massive fur cloaks. The Tepestani wear little jew-
elry, save for the occasional bronze armband or
earring.

The Tepestani take pleasure in hard work and
the simple joys of life, such as family, food and
music. While they consider toil and hardship to be
sacred facets of life, they are also passionate people.
The Tepestani year is dotted with seasonal festivals
that feature nightly singing, dancing and drinking.
Nonetheless, the Tepestani are extremely supersti-
tious and fearful folk. They are terrified of the
“little beasties” that stalk the domain’s forests,
seeking foolish travelers on whom to prey. These
goblin bands are particularly cruel and murderous,
but the forests are also home to malicious fey,
cannibalistic hagsand other horrors. The Tepestani
make few distinctions between the various forest
denizens, regarding them all as unholy magical
beings. Although in the past the Tepestani huddled
in fear from these creatures, they now respond with
sword and flame to signs of supernatural activity,
led in their crusade by the clerics of Belenus.
Everywhere the Tepestani see signs of evil’s influ-
ence, even among their families and neighbors.
Fear has led to hysteria, and though creatures of
darkness have indeed been destroyed by the vigi-
lance, an untold number of innocents have also
been slain.

The Law: Aristocratic and theocratic inde-
pendentsettlements. It is culture rather than formal
government that unites the Tepestani. A council
of senior wealthy males administers each settle-
ment independently. These elders govern with

 
