 

relative impunity, though they act only when in
unanimous agreement. In larger settlements, petty
magistrates and warriors are appointed by the elder
council to oversee day-to-day law and order. The
clerics of Belenus have significant influence over
the elders in most settlements. This influence has
grown in recent years, as Belenus’s clerics maintain
that only their god’s cleansing fire can protect the
innocent from the forest’s denizens. To that end,
the clerics root out suspected evildoers and then
quickly convene tribunals to interrogate and sen-
tence them. Such hasty justice often leads to a
cascade of accusations as the guilty attempt to
divert the clerics’ attention to others. Wyan of
Viktal is at the front of the church’s expanding
power. He is a severe man who unflinchingly takes
drastic measures when purging a settlement of
evil’s taint.

 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — barley,
wheat, oats, turnips, potatoes, pears, sheep, goats,
hogs, dairy, sturgeon, pike, peat, timber, gypsum,
beer. Coinage — none. Tepest conducts trade
through barter, though some currency from Darkon
and Nova Vaasa moves through the domain.

 

Isolated as it is, Tepest has never enjoyed
extensive contact with other domains. The East
Timor Road and South Dnar River, both leading
into Nova Vaasa, are Tepest’s only conduits to the
outside world. The evil reputation of the domain’s
forests is enough to dissuade travelers from even a
broad highway such as the East Timor. The recent
hysteria that has gripped Tepest further discour-
ages the few outsiders interested in political or
economic ties with the domain. Nonetheless, lim-
ited trade persists with settlements in northern
Nova Vaasa.

 

Realm Magic Rating: Tepest’s magic rating
fluctuates wildly depending on the area. In the
forests, it can rise as high as 5, while in settlements
it may drop as low

Characters: Classes — bar¢ s, fighters,
skills — Craft (carpentry,
leatherworking, weaving), Intimidate, Knowledge
(monster lore, religion), Perform (ballad, dance,
flute, harp), Profession (farmer, fisher, herbalist,
herdsman, lumberjack), Sense Motive, Survival
Feats — Iron Will, Lunatic, Redhead, Skill Focus
(Knowledge [monster lore]), Toughness, Weapon
Focus (longsword, throwing axe).

 

 

s 1 when a purge is underway

   

, cler

 

rangers, sorcerers.

 
