=”.

 

 

Valachan

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Hills). Nestled in the southwestern Core,
Valachan (VAHL-eh-kahn) is a rugged domain
blanketed by lush evergreen forests and prowled by
fearsome black panthers. The trees are ancient and
massive, shrouded by cool fog and a thick beard of
mosses. Eerie hoots and growls echo through the
hollows, and the chill air is heavy with the prime-
val scent ofdamp redwoods. Although the shadowy
ground is dotted with low, dewy ferns, travel is
difficult due to the treacherous terrain. Ridges and
narrow canyons wind their way through the do-
main, providingconcealment forskulking predators.
Rocky streams flow eastward toward the Arden
River, their whitewater rapids teeming with fish.

Villages are densely clustered in Valachan,
bustling pockets of industriousness amid the eldritch
wilderness. The windowless buildings are con-
structed of heavy logs or planks, with gabled roofs
shingled in black slate. Large, single-room lodges
are common even among wealthy nobles, who take
great pride in their cavernous abodes and encour-
age villagers to socialize within. Structures are
decorated with elaborate, stylized carvings of pan-
thers, bears, wolves and ravens. Heraldry is
important to the Valachani, and homes are proudly
adorned with the matriarch’s insignia. Baron von
Kharkov’s Castle Pantara, in contrast to the invit-
ing homes of his subjects, is a menacing fortress of
charcoal-gray stone. Although temperate, the
Valachan imate is exceedingly wet, with heavy
rainfall throughout the year. Temperatures are
moderate through all seasons, but sweltering sum-
mers occur occasionally.

Major Settlements: Helbenik (pop. 3,500),
Rotwald (pop. 4,400), Ungrad (pop. 1,500).

The Folk: Population— 19,100; Humans97%,
Gnomes 2%, Other 1%. Languages — Vaasi*,
Mordentish, Gnome, Sithican. Religions — Ezra,
Hala.

Valachani are tall, muscular people with wide
shoulders and long, sturdy limbs. Their skin is
typically a dark coffee brown, though colors rang-
ing from a creamy tan to neatly charcoal black
occur. Eye color is often dark brown, but the odd
individual with unsettling bile-yellow eyes is some-
times born. Valachani hair is glossy black and worn
long and straight by both genders. Men never wear
beards or mustaches, but many grow long side-
burns. Clothing is durable and simple, with both

 

   

  

 

a

men and women preferring to go about in loose
trousers and tunics often decorated with fringe and
animal teeth. Faded black and white are the favor-
ite colors, though these are accented with bold
reds, greens and blues. Valachani wear knee-high
boots of soft leather throughout the year, even
when not outdoors.

The Valachani are a stalwart people accus-
tomed to a rustic life amid the domain's eerie
forests. They personify the creatures of the forest in
myths, reserving their greatest reverence and fear
for the panthers, which are numerous and notori-
ously cunning. Valachani value perseverance and
strong family ties but tend to be suspicious of “book
learning” and the trappings of more advanced
domains. A Valachani who does not know how to
shoot a bow or survive in the wilderness is less than
a whole person. Despite their individualism, the
Valachani are social people with exceedingly com-
plex rituals for life’s milestones, including birth,
coming of age, marriage and death. Lengthy festi-
vals mark these events in settlements. Handcrafted
gifts are exchanged and wealthy Valachani at-
tempt to outdo one another by obtaining the best
foodstuffs and entertainment.

 

The Law: Aristocratic monarchy. Valachan’s
ruler, Baron Urik von Kharkoy, is a cold man who
values obedience and his own privacy above all
else. This stern aloofness does not endear the baron
to his subjects, but the Valachani have learned to
pay their taxes dutifully and thereby avoid the
baron’s attention and infamous temper. Von
Kharkov demands petty servitude from random
commoners on occasion, summoning them to Castle
Pantara for a single night. Those who are sum-
moned often return infected with the White Fever,
a mild but debilitating flu that strikes many
Valachani throughout their lives. Each year, von.
Kharkoy forcefully takesa young Valachani woman
as his bride; to date, the unfortunate soul he chooses
has never lived out the year. These sinister facts
only heighten fear of the baron and feed rumors
that he truly is inhuman.

The baron’s private army of enforcers collects
taxes and rounds up anyone unfortunate enough to
draw von Kharkov’sire. Expertly trained in swords-
manship and wilderness skills, these enforcers are
monstrous sadists zealously loyal to their lord. The
mysterious Lady Adelaide, the Veiled Mistress,
commands them. Arrogant and astonishingly vi-
cious, Adelaide shares the appetites of the baron.
She can be bribed by the offering of a handsome

 
