 

   

   

youth, who usually emerges scarred without and
within from the mistress’s wicked attentions.

Despite the oppressive presence of the baron’s
minions, life in most Valachani settlements is
peaceful. The most powerful nobles administer
justice and arbitrate disputes as they see fit, but
corruption is rare. Nobility is hereditary through
the mother’s side, and men rather than women
marry out of their families. Although tradition
dictates that nobles be respected and deferred to
because of their wealth, commoners do not tolerate
incompetence or weakness in their betters. Nobles
who lack the guile to defend their positions are
quickly eliminated and their assets divided among
the remaining aristocrats. Serving in asettlement’s
militia is an honorable and profitable pursuit, as
nobles reward service with wealth, titles and ar-
ranged marriages.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
barley, hops, cherries, apples, peas, flower bulbs,
hogs, sheep, dairy, salmon, trout, timber, furs, gold,
copper, bows, furniture. Coinage — pantherhead
(gp), cateye (sp), claw (cp).

Despite expanding trade with neighboring
domains, Valachan retains a strong streak of inde-
pendence. Baron von Kharkov apparently has little
interest in establishing alliances with other realms.
His enforcers patrol the domain’s frontiers irregu-
larly, equally likely to harass, rob or murder curious
travelers. Thus, the Valachani are left to forge their
own bonds with foreign merchants. For now, the
Valachani seem content to trade their wares and
avoid entangling themselves in the affairs of other
lands.

Realm Magic Rating: Valachan’s magic rat-
ing changes in different areas. Though usually a
2-3, it can reach as high as 4 in the forests.

Characters: Classes — barbarians, druids, fight-
ers, rangers, sorcerers. Skills — Climb, Craft
(basketweaving, bowmaking, carpentry), Hide,
Knowledge (nature), Move Silently, Profession
(farmer, guide, herbalist, lumberjack), Survival.
Feats — Alertness, Courage, Improved Critical,
Point Blank Shot (plus derivatives), Skill Focus
(Survival), Track, Weapon Focus (composite
longbow).

Vechor
Cultural Level: Classical (4).
Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Forests, Hills
and Swamps). Vechor (VEH-kor) is a domain of
chaos and turmoil where the land itself can be

 

unstable. Lying east of the Core, beyond the cold,
gray waters of the Nocturnal Sea, Vechor’s coast is
a tidal marshland. Lush, salt-tolerant vegetation
and clouds of buzzing mosquitoes inhabit this bor-
der between land and sea. Farther inland, the wide
Nostru River cuts the dense, verdant tropical for-
ests as it winds its way toward the coast. At the
domain’s eastern frontier, the Cliffs of Vesanis rise
up toward a drier plateau that quickly becomes lost
in the Mists. Vechor’s climate is perpetually hot
and humid, marked by a long and merciless rainy
season. Rapid, seemingly impossible shifts in
weather are not unusual. Storms that drop hail,
sleetand even snow can sweep through the domain.
unexpectedly, vanishing just as quickly as they
appear. Cyclones regularly strike the domain with
frightening ferocity.

Much like the weather, Vechor’s landscape
hasa disturbing tendency to shift overtime, as fluid
and unpredictable as a maelstrom. Most of these
changes occur over the course of days, but rapid,
violent shifts are not unheard of. The forests seem
to rearrange themselves at random, obliterating
landmarks and rendering maps useless. Trails are
redirected to new destinations, and the coastline
appears to creep back and forth. This effect can be
observed in the domain’s settlements as well. The
square, pale brick structures can vanish or appear
from nowhere. Streets and alleyways twist and turn
differently each time they are traversed. Even the
heavens above Vechor are not immune. The sky
changes colors, oozing from azure to sickly green to
brilliant purple. The sun and moon appear to
change size with each dawn and dusk, bloating to
fill the sky or dwindling to a weak blot of light.

Major Settlements: Abdok (8,000).

The Folk: Population — 15,900; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages —Vechorite*. Religions —
none. Vechorites acknowledge their king asa deity
but do not worship him.

Vechorites have lean, athletic builds and av-
erage statures. Their complexion is dusky, from an
olive-tinged light tan to a deep bronze. Their
deeply set eyes are either an intense blue or green
or, more rarely, a startling gold orsilver. Vechorites’
straight, unshorn hair ranges from honey-blond to
flat black in color. Most work their long locks into
a cascade of fine braids. Men grow small, neat
mustaches but shun beards. Vechorite clothing is
light, providing the wearer with mobility andkeep-
ing him cool in the domain’s muggy climate. Both
men and women favor short skirts and tunics that
