 

Iason a onan

 

are worn over the left shoulder and belted at the
waist with a sash. Simple sandals are the preferred
footwear. Men dress in white, beige or gray, but
women prefer floral colors such as pale reds, or-
anges, yellows, pinks and violets. Jewelry,
particularly necklaces and bracelets, is popular
with both genders; gold, silver, gems, shell, bone
and wood are used in equal measure. Every
Vechorite bears the brand of an “E” on the fore-
head, written in the local language. This is done
voluntarily as an honorific for their king

Despite the unnerving strangeness of their
homeland, Vechorites are a warm and content
people. They take simple joy in farming, fishing,
hunting and handicrafts. Vechorites are notori-
ously fickle, however, and tend toact out ofemotion
and impulse rather than rationality. They have
learned to accept the ephemeral nature of the
domain as a fact of life. It isno secret that Vechor's
king is hopelessly mad. The Vechorites believe
thata land is both an extension and reflection of its
tuler. Thus, they do not find it surprising that
Vechor itself can seem as insane as their king.
Their response is to simply take the mayhem in
stride. Particularly startling changes in Vechor’s
landscape are considered omens of the king’s mood
or demeanor.

 

The land’s fluid character has touched
Vechorite society as well. There are few social
restrictions or barriers in Vechorite culture, and
virtually no taboos. There is only a loose class
structure, and women are considered equals with
men. The strong dominate the weak with little fear
of reprisal. Perhaps the only enduring social tradi-
tion is marriage, which is regarded as a sacred
symbol of stability. Widowed men and women do
not remarry, and unfaithful spouses are punished
with death.

The Law: Ochlocratic despotism. Easan the
Mad, areclusive wizard-tyrant, rules Vechor. Easan’s
reign is supported by a firm conviction among the
Vechorites that he is divine. According to the
natives, Easan has ruled their land for eons, and
though this claim may be hard to accept, Easan has
certainly reigned longer than the life span of a
normal man. The king is never seen in public, so
outsiders can only speculate as to his nature. Easan’s
palace in Abdok, for all its opulence, stands silent.
It is rumored that the king spends most of his time
ina mystical dwelling beyond the Cliffs of Vesanis,
cackling madly and listening to the whispers of
ancient evils.

There is no formal law in Vechor, only an
unspoken code of loyalty to Easan. Although the
king’s presence is barely felt in daily life, none dare
speak against him. Those who voice words of
rebellion vanish without a trace, presumably into
Easan’s insane clutches. There are no civil or
criminal authorities in Vechor’s settlements. Vio-
lence and theft are repaid with brutal mob justice;
lynchings are carried out in the streets, the offend-
ers hacked to death with blades. Vechor’s
settlements have nostanding militias, butall young
men are rigorously trained in both hunting and
combat.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources —rice, mil-
let, cassava, cotton, bananas, sugarcane, cacao,
coffee, tea, rubber, gums, spices, vanilla, cattle,
tuna, shrimp, turtles, pearls, timber, gold, silver,
gems. Coinage — wildcrown (gp), wildorb (sp),
wildpenny (cp). The currency used in Vechor is
clearly ancient, the coins worn and irregular in
shape. Although their value is still recognized
among the Vechorites, barter is commonplace as
well.

 

   

For all its madness, Vechor has seen contact
with other domains increase in recent years. Mer-
chants are eager to trade for the domain’s exotic
and valuable resources, and the Vechorites have
responded in kind. Commerce has expanded with
coastal settlements in Darkon and Nova Vaasa in
particular. Easan has not yet reacted to the pres-
ence of outsiders in his realm, though none can
truly say what the mad wizard’s attitude is toward
this growing exchange.

Realm Magic Rating: Vechor's magic rating
swings wildly between 0 and 6.

Characters: Cla

 

 

s — druids, fighters, rang-
ers, sorcerers. Skills —Craft (pottery, stonemasonry,
weaving), Intimidate, Knowledge (arcana, na-
ture), Profession (farmer, fisher, herdsman, miner),
Swim, Survival. Feats — Courage, Dodge (plus
derivatives), Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Open
Mind, Quick Draw, Weapon Focus (kukri).

Verbrek

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Swamps). Verbrek (vehr-BREHK) is a
wild domain in the grip of fear, where the wolf is
master and humanity huddles like cowering prey.
Lying in the heart of the southwestern Core’s river
lowlands, the domain is shrouded ina patchwork of
towering forests, misty hollows and overgrown

  

 
