 

   

   

wetlands. Here the wilderness is primeval and
untamed, the dense and thorny vegetation making
travel an arduous experience. Travelers must learn
to be wary of Verbrek’s wolves, hulking, silver-
furred beasts that stalk their prey with human
cunning. Those who brave the domain’s trackless
wilds are constantly harried by a terrifying sen:
tion of being hunted. Snapping twigs and rustling
leaves are enough to send travelers into panicked
flight, like frightened deer. There are no wide,
well-traveled roads in Verbrek, only the most rug-
ged and poorly maintained trails. The broad, muddy
Arden and Musarde Rivers and their tributaries
serve as the domain’s primary conduits to other
lands.

The scattered hamlets and lone farmsteads
that dot the domain are wholly without comfort in
the surrounding gloom of the wilderness. Civiliza-
tion seems to be hanging on by a thread, the savage
forests threatening to devour its tiny strongholds.
The squat buildings are constructed of massive,
rough-cut logs and thatched, gabled roofs and
chimneys of smooth river stones. Muddy trenches
five feet or more deep surround the domain’shumble
livestock pens, an often futile strategy to keep the
wolves at bay. Verbrek’s climate is extremely even,
featuring cold winters and warm summers, with
rainfall most plentiful in late spring.

Major Settlements: None. Verbrek is sparsely
populated, and most folk dwell in solitary farm-
steads or settlements of fewer than twenty people.

The Folk: Population — 800; Humans 99%,
Other 1%; 1,100 natural werewolves. Languages
Mordentish*, Balok, Vaasi, Sithican. Religions —
the Wolf God*, Ezra, Hala.

Verbrekers are a sturdy breed, short in stature
but muscular. Their skin ranges from very fair and
freckled to light tan in color, though it is typically
weathered and toughened with calluses. A
Verbreker’s eyes are usually blue or green and hair
color runs from honey blond to medium brown, but
auburn is also common. Both men and women
keep their straight hair long and unstyled, with
men preferring to maintain a length just above the
shoulder. Men often grow mustaches and beards,
always together. Verbreker clothing is simplistic,
loose fitting and functional. Men wear trousers and
tunics, while women dress in blouses and long
skirts slit up the thigh. Many Verbrekers, male and
female alike, wear hooded cloaks when outdoors.
Shades of green and neutral colors such as white,
beige and brown predominate in local garb. Folk

 

 

 

  

 

 

from all walks of life carry a hatchet and knife at all
times.

Verbrekers are at home in the wilderness,
though their relationship with the natural world
could best be described as an uneasy truce.
Verbrekers have a healthy respect for nature, but
that respect is tempered with a fear of nature’s
savagery. They stoically strive to carve outa corner
of civilization along the banks of Verbrek’s rivers,
recognizing all the while that in the battle between
humanity and nature, nature is likely to emerge the
victor. In the meantime, they endure by learning
the ways of their wilderness, thereby avoiding a
senseless and early death. They value basic survival
skills and are easily angered by urban folk who risk
everyone's neck through their recklessness or igno-
rance.

The Verbrekers are not the true masters of the
domain, a fact that they acknowledge with grim
fatalism. Verbrek belongs to the werewolves, who
have their own brutal tribal society. Raised on wolf
myths and the occasional encounter with the
lycanthropes, Verbrekers are taught to fear
werewolves and avoid them at all costs. Now and
then, on a moonlit night, a lone victim is heard
screaming in the distance, dragged off by the blood-
thirsty beasts. Verbrekers respond simply by
double-checking the locks, throwing another log
on the fire and thanking the deities that they aren’t
the victims tonight.

 

The Law: Independent settlements governed
by elders. Verbrek has no centralized authority or
regional government, though Verbrekers do share
acultural bond. A council consisting of the oldest
male from each household makes decisions for
each settlement. Most of these elder councils are
democratic, with disputes settled by majority votes.
Petty rivalries are uncommon, however, since the
minds of most Verbrek patriarchs lean toward
survival, not power. Settlements are too small to
require true militias, but nearly all Verbreker boys
are trained in wrestling, boxing, archery and sword-
play when they enter manhood.

The werewolves of Verbrek have a cruel and
savage culture, but its particulars are a mystery to
most Verbrekers. Werewolves attack Verbrekers
only sporadically, though they could easily slaugh-
ter household after household if they desired. It
may be that the lycanthropes commit just enough
atrocities to keep the Verbrekers fearful and away
from their sacred places, which are rumored to dot
the domain. The werewolves are said to worship a
