 

   

being known simply as the Wolf God, a primeval
force of fury and carnage. Tales of moonlit sacri-
fices, blasphemous beast rites and frenzied ritual
hunts are common among the Verbrekers.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — oats, bar-
ley, hops, cabbage, potatoes, peppers, cattle, hogs,
chickens, dairy, mushrooms, timber, furs, beer,
clay. Coinage — none. Trade is conducted through
barter in Verbrek, though some Mordentish and
Richemuloise currency moves through the do-
main.

Verbrek is regarded as something of a treach-
erous, backwater realm. Tales of rampaging
werewolf packs discourage outsiders from ventur-
ing into the domain with any frequency. The only
regular visitors are river merchants, who ply the
domain's waterways in search of the furs, timber,
foodstuffs and other commodities that the
Verbrekers produce. In turn, they bring scarce
crafted items, particularly iron tools, on which the
Verbrekers depend. Regardless of the season, trav-
elers may encounter the gregarious Captain Nathan
Timothy navigating Verbrek’s rivers. The captain
is willing to transport passengers aboard his cargo
vessel, the Virago, for a reasonable fee.

. ema Oa:

©
Ciyet's Estate

Che Ambcr Castes

 

Realm Magic Rating: Though it has a rela-
tively low population density, Verbrek’s magic
rating is 3.

Characters: Classes — druids, fighters, rang-
ers, sorcerers. Skills — Craft (bowmaking,
carpentry), Hide, Knowledge (monster lore, na-
ture), Move Silently, Perform (storytelling),
Piotesion (linen feher, herdsman, luciberjeck)
Swim, Survival. Feats — Dodge (plus derivatives),
Jaded, Lunatic, Point Blank Shot (plus deriva-

tives), Run, Skill Focus (Survival), Weapon Focus
(composite longbow).
Clusters

lusters are composed of two or more

domains, though none approaches the

} magnitude of the Core. Like those of the

Core, the domains within a cluster usu-

allyshareacommon climate and terrain.

Some cluster domains have a subtler bond, how-

ever, such as a shared history. Each is distinctive,

and few generalizations can be made about them.
Che Hmber Mlastes

The Amber Wastes are desert lands parched

by the relentless heat of the sun. There is no ebb

SiS

 
