 

   

 
  

 

and flow of seasons in these arid domains; the
scorching temperatures are relentless. Here the
Mists sometimes reveal themselves in strange ways,
appearing as shimmering heat mirages or blinding
sandstorms. The Wastes are harsh and unforgiving;
life huddles near oases and hides beneath the
shifting sands.

Dar'Akir

Cultural Level: Bronze Age (2).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Deserts, Hills
and Mountains). Har’Akir (har -a-KEER) isa land
of vanished empires where the sands erode ancient
monuments and the folk live in the shadow of
faded glories. Itisa lonely realm, a patch of burning
desert that drifts up against the towering cliffs that
lie to the east. Riddling these barren crags are
numerous forgotten tombs, concealing fabulous
riches and horrifying curses. Foremost among these
forbidden vaults is the crypt of Ankhtepot,
Har’Akir’s mightiestpharaoh, in the canyon known
as Pharaoh’s Rest.

 

 

The sole source of fresh water in Har’Akir is
the Muhar Oasis, hidden among the rolling desert
dunes. Its waters are clear and refreshing, though
the local villagers strictly limit access to such a
precious resource. The shores are lined with sway-
ing palm trees and crowded throughout the day
with camels, donkeys and women bearing jugs of
water. Buildings in Har’Akir are squat structures of
whitewashed mud or sandstone. Doorways and
windows are open portals that allow cool breezes to
circulate indoors, though at night they are draped
with linen to keep out the evening chill

Settlements: Muhar (pop. 300)

The Folk: Population — 600; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Akiri*, Pharazian. Reli-
gions — Akiri Pantheon*.

The Akiri are short, wiry people, their features
weathered by the desert sun and winds. Their skin
is dark, ranging from a dusky bronze to a deep
chocolate brown. Eye color is usually deep brown,
though the eyes of some Akiri are flecked with gold
or copper. Their straight, stiff hair is either dark
brown or flat black, but many Akiri stain their
locks a luxurious, glossy black. Male Akiri never
grow their facial hair, and some shave their heads
entirely. Both men and women wear loose, white
robes of linen belted at the waist with a sash. The
ubiquitous Akiri head cloth can be drawn across
the face when stinging sand becomes windborne.
Humble sandalsare the customary footwear, though

 

 

aeons

the Akiri remove these when indoors. Men and
women alike decorate their eyes with pigments of
gold, azure and black. Women stain their hands
with henna, a practice that is considered attractive
by Akiri men. Jewelry is rarely worn, except for
simple scarab amulets of sandstone, which almost
all Akiri possess.

The Akiri are wary folk, suspicious of outsiders
and anything they consider strange. Although not
hostile toward foreigners, they are retiring and
distant in their manner. They dutifully offer respite
for weary desert travelers, but nothing more. Even
in the company of one another, the Akiri tend to
be quiet and reserved. There is a tired sadness to
their daily routines, as if they are remembering
vanished times of happiness and nobility. Indeed,
thecrumbling statues and obelisks that peek through
Har’Akir’s shifting sands hint at a once mighty
empire. Now nothing remains but a fragmented
history of the cruel pharaoh Ankhtepot, whom the
Akiri believe slumbers fitfully in his tomb.

The Akiri have a vibrant pantheon of deities
with an elaborate mythology. Although the sun
deity Ra is the patriarch of these deities, it is the
deity of life and death, Osiris, whom most Akiri
revere. As a people, they are terrified of death,
particularly the prospect of a gray eternity in the
underworld. Accordingly, the Akiri try to adhere
to the principle of ma’at, which dictates a cosmic
order to all things, so that they might be admitted
to paradise. Funerary traditions are paramount
among the Akiri, since the dead are believed to
require their mortal husks and possessions in the
beyond. Merely entering a sealed tomb is consid-
ered a profane trespass in Har’Akir, and grave
robbing is an unspeakable crime.

The Law: Theocracy. Clerics rule Har’Akir, a
pale reflection of the powerful religious hierarchy
that once advised pharaohs and governed from the
shadows. Although the days of the god-kings are
gone, the clerics have survived, and the Akiri
continue to dutifully obey their edicts. It is the
temple guards who keep the peace in Muhar and
the clerics that mete out justice and make decisions
for the community. They are led by the high
of Osiris, Snefru, a stern woman with
. Beyond the village oasis, however,
Har’Akir is a lawless wasteland. Travelers and
hermits have no one but themselves to turn to for
protection against the desert and its ancient evils.

Slavery is an accepted institution in Har’Akir,
and nearly one-third of the domain’s population is

 

 

 

 
 
