 

 

made up of slaves. The customary punishment for
criminals is enslavement, not imprisonment. Slaves
can work as household servants or even as skilled
tradesmen. Most perform menial tasks, however,
such as heavy labor and tending the muddy plots
along the oasis shore.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
millet, flax, beans, dates, figs, sheep, goats, cattle,
camels, iron, salt, gypsum, talc, cloth. Coinage —
none. Trade is primarily conducted through barter
in Har’Akir, though merchants sometimes accept
gold and silver as payment. Ancient Akiri coins
surface on occasion, but most are secreted away in
forgotten tombs.

In the past, Har’Akir has had little contact
with the outside world. This has changed in recent
years, as desert nomads from Pharazia have begun
tomake the perilous journey from beyond the cliffs
in the east. Unmistakable with their black robes
and flashing scimitars, these wanderers seek trade
with the Akiri, bringing robust slaves and sweet
foodstuffs. Contact with other lands is sporadic at
best, but tales of Har’Akir and its ancient treasures
have gradually reached the Core. No doubt the
brave and foolhardy will soon journey to Har ‘Akir
in greater numbers, seeking fabulous and exotic
wealth. If the fates of previous treasure hunters are

  

 

any indication, such interlopers will only nourish
the vultures or perish screaming ina lightless crypt.

 

Realm Magic Rating: Har’ Akir’s magic rating
isa3.

 

Characters: Classes — clerics, fighters, wiz
ards. Skills — Bluff, Craft (alchemy, basketweaving,
calligraphy, pottery, stonemasonry, weaving),
Handle Animal, Knowledge (arcana, monster lore,
nobility and royalty, religion), Profession (apoth-
ecary, farmer, herbalist, herdsman, scribe, tanner,
teamster), Ride, Sense Motive, Survival. Feats —
Endurance, Spell Focus (Necromancy), Voice of
Wrath, Weapon Focus (short sword, shortspear)

 

Pharazia

Cultural Level: Early Medieval (6).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Deserts).
Phatazia (fa-RAZH-i-a) is a domain of endless,
searing desert as pitiless as the judgment of a god.
The rolling dunes shift eternally in the burning
winds, and rocky outcroppings emerge and vanish
from the sand. Overhead, vultures circle the blaz-
ing eye of the sun, patiently waiting for thirst and
exhaustion to overcome travelers. Sparkling oases
break the harsh tedium of the wastes, though far

 

 

 
