domain’s brackish, muddy rivers, where slews of
crocodiles sun themselves on the banks. Swaying
palm trees along the oases and rivers provide pre-
cious shade, but travelers must compete with the
desert creatures that claim the cool shadows for
themselves.

Near the center of the domain is the city of
Phiraz, a dusky desert jewel on the shores of a
shimmering oasis. The city’s square buildings are
constructed of stone brick covered in whitewashed
plaster. Blessed breezes waft through the open
portals of doorways and windows. The most opu-
lent structures are built of polished stone and
decorated with intricate geometric mosaics. Slen-
der spires and gleaming domes soar above the city,
as if yearning to touch the heavens. Narrow streets
wind between homes and shops, opening into
plazas thronging with eager vendors.

Settlements: Phiraz (pop. 8,800).

The Folk: Population — 10,200; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Pharazian*. Religions —
none. Pharazians revere Diamabel, the beauteous
tuler of Pharazia, as a divine being, though he has
no temples or clerics.

  

 

 

 

 

Pharazians are handsome and trim people,
their features angular. Their skin tone ranges from
light olive-tan to dusky bronze. Eye color is almost
always deep brown; the rare child with jet-black
eyes is slain at birth out of superstition. Pharazians
have sleek, black hair, which men keep trimmed
short and women grow exceptionally long. Neatly
groomed mustaches and beards are common among
men. Pharazians wear long, loose robes donned
over trousers or skirts. Head cloths are traditional
for both men and women for the sake of modesty
and as a guard against windborne sand. In public,
women hide every lock of their hair beneath shawls,
and veils conceal their faces save for the eyes.
Sandals or slippers are the customary footwear.
Jewelry and makeup are considered vulgar, at least
in public.

Pharazians are tense, reserved folk mindful of
their words and deeds. Moral purity is paramount
tothem, though more out of tradition and fear than
spiritual conviction. Palpable anxiety colors their
careful, measured speech, as if they are fearful of
uttering the wrong words. Their nerves have frayed
under the stern commandments of Diamabel, whose
confessors are vigilant for those who would stray
from the fold. Pharazians eagerly betray offenders

 

 

   

to the confessors, if only to gain a moment of
respite from their puritanical watchfulness.

Deep in the sandy wastes, however, dwell
desert nomads who refuse to submit to Diamabel’s
laws. These hardy wanderers are constantly on the
move, pitching their vividly colored tents in a
different spot each night. Distinctive in their black
robes and astride their sleek horses, the nomads are
hated and feared by the city folk of Phiraz, not the
least for their heretical view that Diamabel is
nothing more than a corrupted mortal. Sheikh
Allahn el Rashaan, a cunning desert warrior, leads
the nomads on their crusade against Pharazia’s
master.

 

The Law: Moralistic despotism. Diamabel the
Righteous rules Pharazia with an unforgiving hand,
demanding that his subjects submit to his edicts
with nothing less than perfect obedience. He is no
mortal man, but a pale, angelic creature with
feathered wings and a blazing countenance.
Pharazians believe that Diamabel is a celestial
agent sentamong them to teach right word, thought
and deed. There is no deity at the center of his
commandments, only purity for its own sake. There
are certain activities that must not be undertaken,
foods that must not be eaten, words that must not
be uttered and thoughts that must not he pondered.
Two hours of prayer are required each day for the
penitent to reflect on their crimes and resolve to be
obedient.

Diamabel’s laws are enforced strictly, without
ambiguity or leniency. Subjects are either obedient
or wayward, and the latter are harshly punished for
their sins. Confessors wearing pure white robes and
bearing wicked scourges patrol the streets of Phiraz,
escorted by armed warrior zealots. The confessors
are vigilant for errant souls, who are expected to
repent and submit to brutal lashings. The confes-
sors have absolute discretion in meting out
punishment, as their mandate comes from Diamabel
himself. The Black Herald, a terrifying specter
rumored to be the embodiment of Diamabel’s ven-
geance, slays the worst transgressors under the
cloak of night.

 

The desert nomads, meanwhile, are loyal to
the banner of Sheikh Rashaan, who leads by virtue
of his charisma, wealth and battle prowess. Al-
though they are sworn enemies of Diamabel, the
nomads have their own strict code of laws. Like-
wise, their punishments are no less severe; violent
criminals and traitors are horribly maimed and left
in the desert to die.

 
