 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
barley, rice, millet, flax, melons, citrus, peas, beans,
eggplant, figs, dates, coffee, camels, sheep, goats,
cattle, cloth. Coinage — penance (gp), reproach
(sp), blessing (cp). Pricesare not fixed in Pharazian
shops and markets, and haggling is integral to any
exchange. Equipment costs 20% more than the
listed price in the Player’s Handbook, but if the
buyer succeeds in an opposed Diplomacy check
with the seller, the price is reduced to 20% less than
the listed price.

Few travelers from other domains find their
way to Pharazia. Those that have almost always
hasten to leave when they first clash with the
domain’s oppressive laws. Diamabel takes a dim
view of outsiders, as their corrupting influence
might disrupt the purity of his realm. Similarly, he
forbids his subjects from venturing beyond Phiraz,
lest they be slain, enslaved or converted by the
desertnomads. The nomads, for their part, conduct
regular trade with the domain of Har’Akirfar to the
west, though the journey necessitates travel through
forsaken Sebua. The appearance of their caravans
isa welcome sight among the Akiri, and the wealth
generated by such commerce has only expanded
Sheikh Rashaan’s power.

Realm Magic Rating: Pharazia’s magic rating
varies between 3 and 4.

Characters: Classes — barbarians, fighters,
wizards, Skills — Bluff, Craft (calligraphy, pottery,
stonemasonry, weaving), Diplomacy, Profession
(farmer, herdsman, scribe), Ride, Sense Motive,
Survival. Feats — Endurance, Expertise (plus de-
rivatives), Mounted Combat (plus derivatives),
Skill Focus (Ride), Two-Weapon Fighting, Voice
of Wrath, Weapon Focus (scimitar).

Sebua

Cultural Level: Stone Age (1). Ruins in Sebua
reflect a Bronze Age (2) culture.

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Deserts, Hills
and Mountains), Sebua (SEB-oo-a) is a forsaken
domain, adesert wasteland that shelters lost secrets
and glittering evils. The sun scorches a landscape
of trackless sand dunes and barren, rocky flats.
Oases are plentiful in the wastes, but parched
travelers abruptly learn that many of them are
brackish or tainted. In the west, the Valley of
Death snakes its way among soaring cliffs, the red
earth cracked and dry underfoot. The valley is
strewn with silent tombs and ruined temples dedi-
cated to forgotten deities, all swathed in the shadows

 

2

cast by the cliffs. Natural sandstone buttes and
arches fringe the eastern face of the crags, where
the alkaline waters of the Red Oasis swarm with
bloodthirsty mosquitoes. Storm clouds gather in
the sky above Sebua throughout the morning,
usually cooling the desert with brief, torrential
rains in the afternoon. Vicious black sandstorms
blow out of the hinterlands at times, devouring
everything in their path with choking, searing
sand.

Near the center of the domain, the ruined city
of Anhalla lies ravaged by the desert and time.
What were once wondrous stone buildings and
monuments are now merely forlorn chunks of
foundation and windblown dust. Belligerent ba-
boons dart through the ruins, tormenting any
interlopers with their ching and thievery.
Pitiful mud dwellings, clearly the handiwork of
recent residents in Anhalla, squat amid the rubble.
In truth, a handful of children dwell in the city,
wild youngsters who have learned to survive on
their own in such harsh surroundings. On the
outskirts of Anhalla, a magnificent walled estate
still stands untouched by the slow death that is
gradually claiming the city. Travelers have re-
ported hearing sweet music and laughter floating
over the walls, but none has ever glimpsed the
festivities within and returned.

 

Settlements: None.

The Folk: Population — unknown; Humans
assumed 100%. Languages — Wildspeak. Religions
—none. Although the wild children only commu-
nicate in their savage Wildspeak, evidence from
the ruins throughout Sebua indicates that Akiri
was once the dominant language of the domain.
Similarly, the deities of the Akiri pantheon gaze
sternly from Sebua’s weathered temple carvings.
Clearly, Sebua once shared strong bonds with the
neighboring domain of Har’Akir to the west.

Sebua isa desolate land without native people,
save for the wild children of Anhalla. These Sebuan
youngsters are feral and extremely shy, though
their curiosity often goads them to observe travel-
ers from afar. They are short and athletic and
hardened by an arduous existence amid sand, sun
and scorpions. Their dark skin varies in tone from
deep bronze toa rich, dark brown. They have wide,
almond-shaped eyes, always the black-brown color
of coffee. Their flat black hair is naturally straight,
but the long, unkempt locks are densely matted
and often suffused with lice and detritus. Many
Sebuan children have gruesome scars, telltale signs

 
