 

of how harsh their short lives have been. Their
clothing is meager and ragged, simply scraps of
animal hide or woven reeds. Rarely do they bother
wearing anything but a loincloth, though girls also
don a short, tattered shift.

The Sebuan children are reclusive, skulking
among the ruins of Anhalla like timid animals.
They watch trespassers from the shadows, as alert
for danger as wild antelope. Nonetheless, they can
exhibit astonishing ferocity when threatened, fight-
ing like desperate, cornered prey — or cunning
predators. The joys of a carefree childhood are
unknown to them; they must hunt, gather and craft
tools and weapons to survive. The children wor-
ship no deities but revere the desert itself as their
harsh mother. They communicate through a pecu-
liar language of animal noises, which Pharazian
nomads have dubbed Wildspeak. There is no writ-
ten formof this tongue, which to listeners resembles
a cacophony of jackal yips, baboon screeches, bird
chirps and other bestial sounds. Of course, the
enduring enigma of the wild children is their ori-
gin. No clues have surfaced to suggest where their
parents might be or how the youths might have
come to dwell in a lost city deep in the trackless
desert. For that matter, some Pharazian wanderers
have begun to wonder how it is that the years roll
on, but the wild children never seem to grow up.

The Law: No formal government. The Sebuan
children have a primitive society that values group
survival and harmony. There are no tribal leaders,
though the wisdom of older children is respected
and heeded. Power struggles are unknown, and
when conflicts arise they are settled with a simple
majority vote. Virtually all disputes are over mat-
ters of raw survival, such as strategies for procuring
water and food. There are no laws or punishment
among the wild children; each youngster earnestly
contributes to the welfare of the group, because to
do otherwise would mean death for them all.

 

 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
ploited) — beans, peas, dates, iron, salt, gypsum,
talc. Coinage — none.

 

Despite its bleak landscape, Sebua has plenti-
ful natural resources. Wild legumes and vegetables
grow along the oasis shores, and mineral deposits
sparkle in the scorched cliffs. Nonetheless, outsid-
ers are reluctant to venture to the domain. The
nomads of Pharazia choose not to tarry in Sebua,
secking trade beyond the Valley of Death with
Har’Akir. Sebua is widely considered an unholy
land and is supposedly haunted by blasphemous

  

 

horrors; some say it is cursed by forgotten deities for
forgotten crimes. The creature called the Scabrous
One, who stalks the dunes eternally for victims, is
only the most infamous of these damned souls.
Even in the face of such dangers, however, a
handful of explorers has ventured into the tombs
and temples of Sebua, seeking the wealth of bygone
ages. Some have even braved the sinister estate
neat Anhalla. None of these seekers has ever
returned

Realm Magic Rating: Unknown.

Characters: Classes — barbarians, druids, rang-
ers. Skills — Climb, Craft (basketweaving,
bowmaking, pottery, weaponsmithing), Heal, Hide,
Jump, Knowledge (nature), Move Silently, Sur-
vival. Feats — Back to the Wall, Dodge (plus
derivatives), Endurance, Skill Focus (Survival),
Track, Weapon Focus (handaxe, shortspear).

Che Frozen Reaches

n the Frozen Reaches, eternal winter
reigns. Daylight is short, the sun peering
above the horizon for just 6 hours. End-
less snow blankets the rugged landscape,
making travel arduous. The stiff winds
howl eerily across the wastes, cutting through the
thickest clothing. Several feet of ice covers the
surface of lakes and ponds, and jagged floes choke
the rivers. Dense evergreen forests tower around
travelers, their bitter needles, nuts and bark the
only food for foragers. Farmers are forced to grow
tiny plots of winter grains and hardy root veg-
etables, Fierce predators, maddened with starvation,
stalk the wilderness. The Mists sometimes appear
here as cruel, blinding blizzards

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sanguinia

Cultural Level: Early Medieval (6)

Landscape: Full Ecology (Cold Forest, Hills
and Mountains). Sanguinia (sahn-GWIN-i-a) isa
domain of jagged, frozen mountains. The dizzying
icebound peak of Mount Radu is the land’s highest
point. The slopes are treacherous, though primeval
evergreen forests cling to them tirelessly. Rugged
outcroppings and sheer ledges abound, making
travel a lethal challenge for all but the most hard-
ened mountaineers. Bitter winds scream across the
heights, threatening to fling travelers from the
mountain’s face. Avalanches choke the mountain
passes for months at a time. Frozen streams tumble
down the mountainsides, their watersa mere trickle
beneath the thick crust. Silent waterfalls hang

 

 

  

 
