from the rocky precipices, caught forever as glitter-
ing curtains of ice. East of Mount Radu, the glassy
surface of Lake Argus is pockmarked with the holes
of ice fishermen. Sanguinia is dotted with menhirs
carved with primitive images of mythic heroes and
frightening behemoths. The mountain tribes that
erected such monuments have vanished, and not
even the Sanguinians know of their fate.

Villages in Sanguiniaare gray bulwarks huddled
against the weather’s limitless fury. The buildings
are squat, round edifices, the windowless walls
constructed several feet thick with gray cobbles
and boulders. The roofs are made of two layers of
wooden planks and insulated with dry, packed
evergreen needles. Much grander design is exhib-
ited in Castle Guirgiu, the abode of Prince Mircea.
Spired turrets pierce the mountain air, and the
steep roofs of dark green slate are free of snow and
ice. Although it is guarded only by a low wall and
frozen moat, most Sanguinians quake at the thought
of even approaching Mircea’s dread domicile.

Settlements: Fagaras (pop. 800), Kosova (pop.
1,000), Tirgo (pop. 1,300).

The Folk: Population — 6,300; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Sanguine*. Religions —
none.

 

Sanguinians are rugged people strengthened
by a lifetime of clinging to the frigid mountains.
Their shoulders and hips are wide, their chests
deep. Their skin is fair, though their cheeks are
perpetually ruddy from the freezing air. Sanguinian
eyes are a cold, pale blue or gray in hue. Their curly
hair ranges from sandy brown to nearly black. Both
men and women let their locks grow long and wild.
Men carefully braid theirlong mustaches and beards;
a magnificently styled beard, hoary with frost, is
considered very masculine. Sanguinian clothing is
thick and extremely durable, made of layers of
hides stitched together with sawdust insulation.
Men and women alike wear trousers, shirts, long
coats that hang past the knees, and round fur hats.
Dark colors are favored: black, grays, browns, mid-
nightblue, crimson, purple and deep orange-brown.
Boots are studded with iron spikes to provide
purchase on bare stone and ice, while snowshoes
are used to cross wide expanses of snow.

The Sanguinians have managed to survive
and prosper in exceedingly hostile surroundings,
and this infects them with respect for endurance
and practicality. They are honest and straightfor-
ward almost to a fault and have little patience for
deception or timidity in others. Although survival

  
