 

    

is always on their minds, they treasure life’s simple
joys, such as music, dance and romance. They
reason that death may come at any time in the
mountains, and life should be enjoyed to its fullest.
Children are treasured among the Sanguinians; a
healthy birth is cause for the grandparents to spon-
sor a week of nightly feasting and dancing. Simple
children’s rhymes about nature and silly characters
are popular even among adults, who sing them
passionately through the night. The Sanguinians
fear little, except for wolves, avalanches and the
bloodthirsty, misshapen vampires that are known
to haunt lonely mountain passes.

The Law: Hereditary monarchy. Prince
Ladislav Mircea, a cruel young tyrant, rules
Sanguinia with almost casual malice. Few have
even seen the reclusive monarch, though he is
rumored to be stunningly handsome. Although
monstrously harsh to those who displease him,
Mircea seems to govern solely for his own jaded
amusement. He is easily distracted and involves
himself with his realm only for as long as it enter-
tains him. He sometimes skulks in Castle Guirgiu
for months at a time, much to the relief of the
Sanguinians. Mircea levies severe taxes on his
subjects but demands little else from them. His
personal enforcers, clad in ashen coats and wield-
ing wicked battleaxes, dutifully collect the tribute
from each village but otherwise remain close to
Castle Guirgiu. Settlements are left to govern and
protect themselves. The most powerful landown-
ers ina village serve on a council with limited seats
and are responsible for making broad decisions that
affect the whole community. The council also
adjudicates significant disputes and organizes a
village militia.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
rye, turnips, onions, reindeer, goats, trout, perch,
timber, furs, gold, copper, iron, salt, gems. Coinage
— frostmark (gp), chillpiece (sp), nip (cp).

Sanguinia has had virtually no contact with
the outside world for generations. Once in a great
while travelers find their way to these frigid moun-
tains, but they are usually quick to leave such a
bleak, inhospitable land. Recently, Sanguinian
hunters have discovered a vast, frozen valley called
Vorostokoy to the southeast. While this has
prompted some eagerness to trade with the valley’s
residents, Vorostokov has its own dangers, includ-
ing huge, fearless wolves that have begun stalking
Sanguinia’s lower elevations.

  

Realm Magic Rating: Sanguinia has a magic
rating of 2 to 3.

Characters: Classes — barbarians, bards, fight-
ers, rangers, sorcerers. Skills — Balance, Climb,
Craft (blacksmithing, carpentry, leatherworking),
Jump, Perform (chant, dance, drums, limericks),
Profession (fisher, herdsman, lumberjack, miner,
tanner), Use Rope, Survival. Feats — Back to the
Wall, Cold One, Endurance, Power Attack (plus
derivatives), Skill Focus (Climb), Weapon Focus
(battleaxe).

 

Vorostokov

Cultural Level: Dark Age (5).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Cold Forests, Plains,
Hills and Mountains). Vorostokov (VOR-oh-
STAWK-awy) is a vast, frozen valley crushed by
endless cold and terrorized by brutish warriors.
Ringed by jagged, treacherous peaks, the domain’s
trackless steppes and forests are buried under per-
petual snow. Weary reindeer herds and humans
alike subsist on lichens, bark and the bitter ever-
green nuts that sprout every three months. The
dark conifer forests are venerable and perilous,
haunted by huge wolves and restless snow spirits.
Brutal winds constantly whistle across the plains,
and lethal blizzardsare a weekly occurrence through-
out the domain. The icebound Trau River meanders
southwest across Vorostokov, draining into the
black waters of the aptly named Bottomless Lake.

Vorostokov’s tiny settlements are scattered,
eacha self-sufficient speck of civilization amid the
frozen wastes. The domain’s log buildings are long
and low, single-room structures that reek of pitch
and pine resin. The gabled roofs are thatched with
winter hay and topped with tilting stone chimneys,
their feeble smoke wisps vanishing in the wind.
Animals, including reindeer and goats, are stabled
inside residences so that their body heat warms the
household. Modest but wickedly sharp palisade
fences surround each home to keep out wolves and
unnatural interlopers.

Major Settlements: Kargo (pop. 100), Kirinova
(pop. 100), Nodvik (pop. 100), Novayalenk (pop.
100), Oneka (pop. 100), Torgov (pop. 100),
Voronina (pop. 100), Vorostokov (pop. 200).

The Folk: Population — 1,100; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Voros*. Religions —none.

The Voros are hearty folk, stout of build and
blessed with powerful limbs. Their skin tends to be
fair, varying from creamy white to a light tan or
sallow. The biting winds of the domain tinge their

 

 
