cheeks with a perpetual ruddiness. Eye color is
commonly a deep brown among the Voros, but
sometimes a strange ginger hue is exhibited. Their
straight hair is always dark brown or raven black.
Women grow their tresses quite long, often past
their waists, and traditionally braid it into a single
lock. Men may wear their hair long and wild or in
avariety of distinct styles, such as shorn temples or
a topknot. Full beards and mustaches are common
among men. Typical Voros clothing consists of
hide shirts and trousers for men and long, layered
dresses for woman. When venturing outdoors, men
and women alike swathe themselves in heavy furs.
Women wrap their shoulders in shawls and wear
kerchiefs over their heads, while men don round
fur hats. Skins and cloth are always natural colors,
never dyed. Jewelry is rare, save for the occasional
earring of antler or bone. Travelers don snowshoes
when trekking through the snowbound wilderness

 

 

a people, the Voros are warm and good
humored, though their spirits have begun to dim
with each passing year of winter. Despite the end-
less cold, they are resolved to survive and disregard
that which they cannot change. They prize hospi-
tality and socializing and are inherently suspicious
of those who cannot enjoy a strong drink and a
hearty laugh. Voros delight in eating, drinking,
, board games and tests of might.

 

song, jok

 

Sweathouses, lodges where residents can relax amid
thick steam, are a cornerstone of culture in Voros
villages. Here, men and women alike gather to
gossip and enjoy the therapeutic vapors. If the
Voros have a weakness, it is their stubbornness and
the slowness with which they are stirred to action:
Dark streaks of cynicism mar the demeanors of
many Voros, and this hopeless fatalism is often
drowned in potent liquor.

The Law: Formerly independent settlements
shifting to despotism. Gregor Zolnik, self-pro-
claimed boyar of Vorostokov, threatens to draw the
entire domain into his grasp. In the past, a powerful
warrior or wealthy landowner governed each vil-
lage in Vorostokov, ruling as he saw fit. The boyar
organized the region in times of war and collected
tribute on behalf of the king’s distant court. Since
the eternal winter settled over Vorostokov, the
region has been in limbo, the settlements unable to
establish contact with the monarchy. Zolnik, a
master hunter and sadistic bully from the village of
Vorostokov, has stepped forward and proclaimed
himself the new boyar of the valley. To consolidate
his power, Zolnik has gathered a boyarsky, a loyal
band of warriors, stalkers and thugs. He is now
engaged ina brutal reign of terror intended to bring
Vorostokov’s settlements under his control.

 
