As might be expected, Zolnik has met with
stubborn resistance in some villages. His response
is always swift and monstrous — the wholesale
slaughter of the settlement’s hunters and trappers.
Starvation has caused more than one village to
accept Zolnik’s brutal domination, as the boyar
offers the game of his huntsmen in exchange for
loyalty. Slowly, surely, the boyar’s reach is extend-
ing from village to village, claiming the entire
frozen valley as his personal dominion.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
beets, potatoes, carrots, onions, reindeer, goats,
trout, perch, pike, sturgeon, spirits, furs, timber,
resin, iron. Coinage — none. Trade in Vorostokov
is conducted through barter.

Travelers from other domains have occasion-
ally stumbled upon the “valley of eternal winter,”
but Vorostokoy has remained a secluded land cut
off from the outside world by unassailable icy peaks.
Recently, however, rangers have discovered a tra-
versable pass in northwestern Vorostokoy, leading
up into a mountainous realm called Sanguinia.
Although some Voros are curious about this do-
main, grotesque creatures have been sighted
descending from the mountains at night and van-
ishing into Vorostokov's forests.

The Shadowlands

 

Realm Magic Rating: Vorostokov’s magic
rating fluctuates between 2 and 3.

Characters: Classes—barbarians, bards, fight-
ers, rangers, sorcerers. Skills —Craft (blacksmithing,
carpentry, leatherworking, weaponsmithing),
Gather Information, Heal, Perform (ballad, chant,
limericks, lute), Profession (brewer, farmer, fisher,
herdsman, lumberjack, tanner), Survival. Feats —
Back to the Wall, Cold One, Endurance, Lunatic,
Power Attack (plus derivatives), Skill Focus (Sur-
vival), Toughness, Track, Weapon Focus
(greatsword).

Che Shadowlands

he forbidding Shadowlands are dubbed
for the Shadowborn family whose fate
seems entwined with the region. Re-
gardless, it isan appropriate appellation
for lands so suffused with darkness, both
real and spiritual. Unspeakable atrocities and
shameful secrets skulk within the dense forests,
both also in strongholds of righteousness. Evil
clashes with still greater evil, while the guttering
flame of virtue threatens to dim forever.

 

 

ites
2) AS credo

 
