 

Avonleigh

Cultural Level: Savage (0). Structures in
Avonleigh reflect a Medieval (7) culture.

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests
and Swamps). Avonleigh (AV-on-LAY) is a
haunted domain, a land of eldritch forests swathed
in consuming darkness. There is no true day or
night in Avonleigh, only endless shadow. Illumi-
nation is diffuse and sickly — even the brightest
light sources penetrate the darkness no more than
aflickering campfire. A perpetual damp chill hangs
in the air, but the regular flow of seasons never
seems to touch the domain. Where the sky peeks
through the trees overhead, black clouds streak a
starless sky. The eerie, twisted Phantasmal Forest,
its black trees and tangled brambles seeming to
claw at trespassers, claims most of Avonleigh. The
forest grows so densely that travel off game trails is
all but impossible. The undergrowth is choked
with nettles, toadstools, rotting logs and grasping
vines. All around, the woods echo with inhuman
sobbing, laughter and screams. Rarely, the forests
open up onto fogbound peat bogs, where yellow
grasses and reeds hide deep, foul waters. The waters
of Wyndham Lake and Devonshire Pond are simi-
larly fetid, blanketed by algal scum and bubbling
with gases and strange noises.

The remnants of the King’s Highway bisect
Avonleigh, running east-west through the center
of the domain. This road is still traversable, though
its cobbles have shifted through the years and
bristling weeds poke through the cracks. Along the
King ‘s Highway, near the very heart of the Phan-
tasmal Forest, stands Tergeron Manor, as foreboding
and decrepit as a crypt. Beyond corroded iron gates
it waits, a sprawling, opulent estate long since
claimed by the surrounding forest. Invariably, the
belfry atop the western wing transfixes travelers
who look upon the Manor, for there a beacon of
brilliant white light shines. The light is not com-
forting, but cold and strangely sorrowful, the glow
of mourning.

Major Settlements: None.

The Folk: Population — none. Languages —
none. Religions —none. Scant clues from Tergeron
Manor suggest that Nidalan was once Avonleigh’s
dominant language. Avonleigh is evidently not a
realm where the living are welcome. Some curious
souls have speculated that the light in Tergeron
Manor isa sign of mortal residents. However, most
outsiders believe that to venture into that brooding

 

 

 

 

estate in search of life is somewhere between fool-
ishness and madness.

 

The Law: No formal government. No living
being is known to rule Avonleigh. Many outsiders
draw the reasonable conclusion that some restless
shade of Tergeron Manor considers Avonleigh its
unholy realm.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
ploited) — peat, timber. Coinage — none.

Avonleigh is clearly a cursed and haunted
land, hardly the sort of domain that outsiders are
disposed to visit. The inhabitants of the neighbor-
ing domain of Nidala are well aware of Avonleigh’s
reputation. That domain’s Knight Protector, Elena
Faith-hold, seems convinced that the Phantasmal
Forest has some special significance. Thus far,
however, Elena’s plans to breach the forest have
proceeded slowly and been marred by maddening
setbacks.

Realm Magic Rating: Oddly, those whotravel
to Avonleigh find the magic rating to be a 4 or 5.

Characters: None.

Nidala

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills, Mountains and Plains). Nidala (NAI-dal-a)
is a domain of breathtaking, rugged wilderness
scoured clean of wickedness by the ruthless vigi-
lance of the domain’s Knight Protector. The
Theospine Mountains run through the center of
the realm, their snowcapped heights soaring up to
touch cold, gray sky. Sparkling streams and rivers
flow down either side of the range, teeming with
freshwater fish and shellfish. To the east, the jagged
crags descend to rolling foothills, where flocks of
sheep graze serenely under the watchful gaze of
shepherds. Lake Amenta huddles close to the south-
ern reaches of the Theospines, its frigid waters
supposedly concealing the gateway to a mystical
kingdom. Farther to the east, sweeping grasslands
and fertile farms stretch out beyond the foothills,
eventually changing into a densely forested flood-
plain. The Knight Protector’s warriors patrol the
eastern woods for predators, and lumberjacks work
year-round without fear.

West of the Theospines, Nidala’s landscape is
much more savage and sinister. The peaks slope
down toward rocky badlands, which are riddled
with black, twisting caverns. Here the air is still
and swollen with a palpable tension. As the barren
hills descend into gloomy forests, the sense of dread

  

 

  

 
