 

heightens. The gnarled trees creak and sway re-
gardless of the winds, making even seasoned
woodsmen edgy. Snapping twigs and low growls
betray the movements of stalking beasts, natural
and otherwise.

Near the edge of the eastern foothills stands
the bustling city of Touraine, smoke rising from its
thousand little chimneys. Its buildings are charm-
ing and tidy, each built two stories tall with stone
and timber and finished with creamy plaster. The
gabled roofs are shingled in vermilion tiles, and
windows are guarded with beautifully carved
wooden shutters. Above the city, perched atop
Mount Malcredo, glowers forbidding Faith Hold,
castle of the Knight Protector. A churning thun-
derstorm rages perpetually above the keep, arcs of
purple lightning periodically stretching out tostrike
the uppermost towers.

Overall, the climate in Nidala is cool and
temperate, though winters can be extremely harsh.

Major Settlements: Touraine (pop. 20,200)

The Folk: Population — 30,500; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Nidalan*. Religions -
Belenus*

The Nidalans are lean folk blessed with strong
limbs and commandingstatures. They have smooth,

 

 

 

fair skin that is frequently freckled or lightly tanned
from working outdoors. A Nidalan’s eyes are al-
ways an icy blue in color. Their straight hair is
usually flaxen to dirty blond, but Nidalans with
raven tresses are not unheard of. Men keep their
hair trimmed short and grow their mustaches and
beards neatly to match. Women allow the hair to
grow long, though rarely past the middle of the
back. Clothing is rugged and functional, designed
to allow the Nidalans to work easily and shrag off
the chill air. Men wear loose shirts, vests, breeches
and high boots, while women don long dresses and
aprons over blouses and pin their hair beneath stiff
bonnets. Neutral colors such as black, white and

 

beige dominate Nidalan garb, though bright red

ry is outlawed in Nidala,
as the Knight Protector has decreed it vain and
vulgar.

The Nidalans are grim folk exhausted and
frustrated by the Knight Protector’s endless moral-

accentsarecommon. Je

  

el

istic decrees. Although they once enjoyed song,
dance and tragic plays, all such activities have been
ausoed, leaving the Didslaus to puta tse
Lvelthoods witha percepubleatrof doors: Thats
not to say that the Nidalans are utterly despondent
at all times; rather, a vague, unshakable sense of

cM

et

 

 
