 

 -_

 

loss clings to them, as if they feel profound regret.
Family gatherings featuring elaborate feasts are
central to Nidalan life, even if the atmosphere has
been terse in recent years. Handicrafts are prac-
ticed throughout Nidala for recreation as well as
profession, and many folk enjoy woodcarving in
their spare time.

The Law: Theocratic monarchy. Elena Faith-
hold, Knight Protector of Nidala, rules her realm
through respect, order and, above all, fear. She is a
legendary holy warrior in the service of the sun
deity Belenus and takes her responsibilities to the
faith extremely seriously. Unfortunately, the
Nidalans have suffered mightily under her unwa-
vering conviction and tenacity, and they pervert
her name as “Elena Strangle-hold” in. whispers.
Elena issues weekly Decrees of Faith, command-
ments and prohibitions that have slowly
accumulated into a mountain of a moral code. To
enforce her decrees, Elena relies on her knights and
clerics, as well as an elaborate network of infor-
mants spread through the realm. Mayors officially
govern Tourine and smaller settlements, gathering
four times a year to discuss matters that affect the
entire domain. Most Nidalans recognize these men
for what they are: the eyes and ears of Elena.

Those who violate Elena’s decrees are pun-
ished savagely. Public floggings and maimings are
standard sentences, but those with the gall tospeak
against Elena or Belenus’s church are dragged in
chains to the infamous torture chambers of Faith
Hold. Given this cruelty, Nidala would probably be
on the edge of revolt if it were not for a legendary
dragon named Banemaw. It is Elena’s presence
alone that keeps this eldritch wyrm at bay, though
he has been known to slaughter rural villages
beyond the Knight Protector’s reach.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
barley, oats, rye, potatoes, hogs, cattle, sheep, dairy,
perch, salmon, crayfish, timber, silver, copper, iron,
lead, limestone, salt, furniture. Coinage — blaz
(gp), flare (sp), flame (cp).

The Knight Protector discourages contact be-
tween her realm and other domains, reasoning that
the corrupting influence of outsiders would only
taint her subjects. Since Nidala is self-sufficient
and somewhat remote, this has not been a problem
in the past. Travelers who do find their way to
Nidala are expected to adhere to Elena’s decrees,
an unlikely prospect since most outsiders are not
even aware the laws exist. Thus, residents of other
domains often find themselves on the way to Faith

 

 

 

Hold’s torture pits within days or even hours of
their arrival in Nidala.

The Phantasmal Forest, which Elena has only
recently discovered beyond the western woods of
Nidala, seems to hold some special interest for the
Knight Protector. She regularly sends troops of
knights and clerics into the wicked forest, but to
what end the Nidalans cannot say.

Realm Magic Rating: Nidala’s overall magic
rating isa 3. The Phantasmal Forest's magic rating
wavers between 3 and 5.

Characters: Classes — clerics, fighters, rang-
ers. Skills — Bluff, Craft (armorsmithing,
blacksmithing, carpentry, weaponsmithing),
Gather Information, Intimidate, Knowledge (reli-
gion), Profession (farmer, herdsman, lumberjack,
miner), Sense Motive. Feats — Jaded, Power At-
tack (plus derivatives), Reincarnated, Skill Focus

(Knowledge [religion]), Weapon Focus
(longsword).
Shadowborn Manor

Cultural Level: Medieval (7).

Landscape: No Ecology (Settled Area).
Among the folk of Nidala, whispered legends speak
of Shadowborn Manor, the ancestral home of the
Shadowborn family. This venerable estate is ru-
mored to lie somewhere in the Phantasmal Forest
of Avonleigh. It is uncertain what the manor even
looks like, for no one has ever entered its grounds
and returned. A handful of travelers has reported
stumbling upon a wall of alabaster stone, smooth,
seamless and without end, deep in the Phantasmal
Forest. These explorers were wise enough to recog-
nize the perverted wrongness of such a thing and
quickly fled; none can say what happens to those
who dare to breach the wall.

Major Settlements: None. Shadowborn Manor
itself is a solitary structure.

The Folk: Population — none. Languages —
none. Religions — none. If there are any mortal
beings in Shadowborn Manor, they surely must be
unnatural minions of evil.

 

The Law: No formal government. Specula-
tion as to the nature of Shadowborn Manor’s
master is wild and groundless. There are rumors
that the spirits of fallen Shadowborn knights haunt
in the manor. Other tales insist that it is an ancient
foe of the Shadowborns that now calls the manor
home.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — none.
Coinage — none. If Shadowborn Manor even ex-

 
