 

 

 

a

a

  

ists, it is one of the most unapproachable and
forbidden of all the domains of Ravenloft. Such a
place almost certainly has no relationship with the
larger world.
Realm Magic Rating: Unknown.
Characters: None.

The Verdurous Lands

The Verdurous Lands are sweltering, tropical
domains where the lush vegetation grows dense
and wild. The heat and humidity are unrelenting,
drenching travelers in sweat. In these muggy lands,
torrential rains define the years, deluging the ver-
dant landscape with an annual wet season. The
wilds are shadowy and menacing in the Verdurous
Lands, stalked by vicious predators and choked by
toxic plant life. Where humanity has slashed back
the strangling vegetation and toiled to survive,
nature seems to scrabble and claw at his handi-
work. In these lands, the savagery of the wilderness
is unremitting and terrible.

Saragoss
Cultural Level: Stone Age (1). Ships in
Saragoss reflect cultures from Bronze Age (2) to
Renaissance (9).

Che Verdurous
Lands

a

   

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Aquatic).
Saragoss (SAHR-a-GA WSS ) isan expanse of warm
ocean choked by sargasso seaweed, where the wrecks
of countless ships drift amid the fog. It isa mariner’s
nightmare, a sweltering purgatory where men are
forced to turn on one another like animals to
survive. The sargasso forms a tangled mat that
snarls ships in its slimy tendrils, rendering escape
from the domain hopeless. The hulks of vessels
from countless eras list brokenly in the muck, many
on the verge of plunging into the depths below. In
places, the sargasso is so dense and spongy that one
can walk across the ocean’s surface, though unseen
breaches in the mat make such travel perilous.
Above, screeching gulls wheel in lazy circles, often
swooping down to harass the domain’s luckless
inhabitants.

Below the surface muck, a forest of kelp sways
in the murky depths. The waters are filthy, clouded
with silt, shredded seaweed and the rot of corpses.
Sharks and barracuda glide through the tangled
maze, sickly beams of sunlight flickering weakly
through the choked surface. Deeper still, the rot-
ting hulls of ships sit silently on the muddy bottom,
an eerie graveyard where all the domain’s ships
eventually come to rest. Schools of silvery fish and

 
