 

a ° es

 

Juminescent squid dart through the gaping holes in
the wrecks. Jagged underwater crags of bone-white
coral rise all around, riddled with black, twisting
caves.

Perpetual fog shrouds Saragoss, concealing
the treacherous seaweed from sailors. The scorch-
ing, cloudless stretches of weather that were once
common no longer come to the domain. The
muggy days are now shrouded in haze, though the
heat is no less wilting. The fog breaks only when a
violent squall is approaching, an omen of the
harrowing ordeal that is to come. Storms are savage
in Saragoss, pounding the ragged ships with torren-
tial rain, howling winds and lashing waves.

Major Settlements: None.

The Folk: Population — 1,100; Humans 98%,
Other 2%. Language — Mordentish, Vaasi,
Darkonese, Souragnian, Rokuma, many others.
Religions — none.

 

Saragossans are drawn from cultures through-
out Ravenloft, and as such, they have no common
appearance or culture. Once the sargasso claims a
ship, its crew becomes trapped here, forced to fend
off raiders from other vessels. Obviously, folk from
domains with maritime traditions are the most
likely to be ensnared in the sargasso beds. Vessels
hailing from strange, unknown lands also become
mired here, however. Regardless of their origins,
Saragossans share a ragged appearance. Their skin
is jaundiced and cracked, ravaged by the salt air.
Their hair is matted and lice ridden, their clothing
threadbare. Scurvy and undernourishment render
many Saragossans weak and delirious.

Life in Saragoss is an ordeal, a brutal exercise
in survival with no room for mercy or sentiment. In
the view of the Saragossans, if preying on the weak
extends their lives a few more weeks, then they are
prepared to raid, betray and murder without hesi-
tation. Fresh water, food and wood are the most
valuable resources in Saragoss, and bloody skir-
mishes over these commodities are commonplace
between ships. There is no room for trust among
people who would kill for a piece of hardtack or
scrap of driftwood. Mutiny and sedition are always
simmering aboard most ships. As if the threat from
fellow sailors were not enough, there are constant
sightings of oceanic horrors, from ships of undead
buccaneers to scaly fish folk crawling up from the
deeps.

The Law: No formal government. Saragoss is
a domain in literal anarchy, where the strong prey
on the weak at whim. There is nothing approach-

 

ing order, justice, or even sanity in its ominous
waters.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
olor) contaniserrine tere fierteymeermee| teenicl
turtles, sponges, seaweed, coral, pearls. Coinage
none.

 

Save for its ensnarement of luckless vessels,
Saragoss has no relationship to the outside world.
The domain's wretched inhabitants are unaware
that just beyond the fog to the southwest, the
Yahasha Mountains of Sri Raji soar above the sea.

Realm Magic Rating: Saragoss has an effec-
tive magic rating of 1.

Characters: None. Outsiders who are claimed
by Saragoss rarely, if ever, escape its choking grasp.

Sri Raji

Cultural Level: Classical (4).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Forests, Hills
and Mountains). Sri Raji (sree RA-jee) isa land of
tropical forests and crumbling ruins where the
people live according to traditions as old as time
and cower in fear from their dread Maharaja. Enor-
mous hardwoods tower around travelers in the
forests, the limbs heavy with vines, mosses and
orchids. Green dampness permeates everything, as
heavy rains batter the forests each night. The
thickets echo with the cacophony of animal life,
from the buzzing of parasitic insects to the shrieks
of monkeys to the growls of prowling tigers. An-
cient temples and shrines peek through the verdant
shroud in places, hinting at forgotten secrets. To
the northwest, the Yahasha Mountains climb to-
ward white wisps of mist, as lush as the surrounding
lowlands. Broad, muddy rivers meander down from
the mountains, their banks swarming with listless
crocodiles. Eminent among these waterways is the
sacred Damuhm River, which flows from legendary
Bahru, the Accursed City. Beyond Mount Yamatali,
the highest peak in the Yahashas, the land plunges
away into the forsaken, fog-bound waters of
Saragoss.

Sri Raji’s cities are walled bastions of civiliza-
tion surrounded by vast rice fields. Within the city
gates, throngs of filthy beggars swarm everywhere,
clamoring for a single coin. The muddy streets are
strewn with diseased corpses and the dung of buf-
falo and elephants. The contrast with the city’s
spectacular architecture is striking. The blocky
buildings are constructed of stone brick and fin-
ished with plaster, which is often painted with
colorful trim. Slender columns, delicate lattice-

 

 
