wany'** “>

work and colorful awnings adorn even the hum-
blest homes and shops. The grandest structures are
breathtaking in their beauty, with walls of polished
stone, imposing towers and friezes depicting fa-
mous myths.

Major Settlements: Muladi (pop. 8,200), Pakat
(pop. 3,500), Tvashti (pop. 2,100)

The Folk: Population — 27,300; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages—Rajian*. Religions —Rajian
Pantheon*.

 

Rajians are lithe people short in stature but
blessed with trim builds. Their skin tone is dark,
ranging froma medium olive-tan to deep chocolate
brown. Eye color is commonly dark brown, though
rare individuals with pale gray or green eyes are
sometimes seen. Rajian hair is straight and always
black, though its sheen can be flat or glossy. Men
cut their hair short, regarding long hair as barbaric.
Women, however, grow their hair throughout their
lives, pulling it back and braiding it into a single
lock. It is acceptable for men to wear neat mus-
taches or beards or to be clean shaven, as suits their
taste. Clothing is made of light cotton dyed with
vibrant colors of every hue. Men wear loose shirts
and wrapped leggings, often covered with a long
coat, and don cloth caps or turbans. Women tradi-

 

 

 

tionally wearasari, asingleswatch of cloth wrapped
around the body and worn over the shoulder, and
cover their heads with a shawl when going about in
public. Sandals or soft slippers are the customary
footwear, lewelry is common, particularly ainong
women, who also paint their eyes and lips with
luscious pigments and stain their hands with henna

Rajians respect tradition and religious convic-
tion above all else, perhaps blindly so. Since the
ancient customs have proven their worth, the
Rajians see little reason to give them up. Nonethe-
less, they are prac

 

 

al people, and have equal
admiration for battle prowess, artistic talent and
scientific ingenuity. The illustrious University of
Tvashti encourages the latter trait; within its li-
braries and temples, the wisest scholars study all
facets of technology and the natural world.

Most traditions in Sri Raji are rooted in a
complex, cyclical view of the cosmos. The Rajian
deities are countless and interrelated, with one
deity often regarded as.a manifestation of another.
The deities require continuous prayer and sacrifice,
which the Rajiansgladly give. Ritual hymns, chants
and dances are also vital, while sects with more
philosophical bents have given rise to a strong
monastic tradition. A central tenet of Rajian cul-
