 

 

boa aan

 

ture is reincarnation, a constant cycle of rebirth
that comprises all living creatures. This concept is
entwined with the domain’s rigid caste system,
such that fulfilling one’s dharma, or proper role, in
this life ensures that one is born into a higher caste
in the next

The Law: Theocratic and aristocratic monar-
chy. The terrible Maharaja Arijani rules from his
palace Mahakala in the Accursed City of Bahru.
Arijani is actually the high priest of Kali, the Black
Mother, though none dares object to his self-
proclaimed title of Maharaja. In truth, though
Arijani’s shadow falls darkly over Sri Raji, he is a
reclusive ruler. Each day a single Rajian is chosen
as a sacrifice to Kali; that person then journeys to
Bahru on an albino elephant, never to be seen
again. Apart from this horrific practice, the Maha-
raja demands little from his subjects, though his
cleric spies are everywhere. Nobles and clerics of
the Rajian deities control most aspects of society.
Although the clerics are of higher station, the
nobles perform the actual tasks of governance.
They levy taxes, control trade and organize city
militias, though most nobles also have their own
private armies.

The caste system is a critical pillar of Rajian
culture, servingasa strong organizingprinciple and
a bulwark against unrest. Although there are nu-
merous castes, they are divisible into four primary
groups: brahmin (priests), kshatriya (nobles and
soldiers), vaishya (merchants and craftsmen), and
shudra (farmers). Rajians are born into a caste and
remain in it throughout their lives. Those of lower
castes are expected to obey and respect their bet-
ters, but there is no expectation for highborn
individuals to treat the lower castes fairly or even
humanely.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — rice, tea,
cotton, jute, coconuts, tobacco, peanuts, spices,
rubber, cattle, goats, timber, iron, gems, cloth.
Coinage —soma-drop (gp), lotus-flower (sp), rice-
seed (cp).

Sti Raji trades sporadically with numerous
distant domains, though exchanges have always
been marked by awkward cultural differences. Con-
tact with otherlandscontinues to increase, however.
Just as Rajian explorers have pushed into the
neighboring Wildlands and more far-flung realms,
travelers from the Core arrive seeking Sri Raj
exotic goods. It remains to be seen when the
Maharaja will turn his awful attention to these
outsiders.

 

 

 

Realm Magic Rating: Sri Raji’s general magic
rating is 3-4.

Characters: Classes — bards, clerics, fighters,
monks, rogues, wizards. Skills — Craft (bowmaking,
gemcutting, pottery, sculpture, stonemasonry,
weaponsmithing, weaving), Diplomacy, Handle
Animal, Knowledge (arcana, nobility and royalty,
religion), Perform (ballad, chant, dance, drums,
flute, harp), Profession (farmer, herdsman, scribe),
Sleight of Hand. Feats — Expertise (plus deriva-
tives), Improved Unarmed Strike (plus derivatives),
Reincarnated, Voice of Wrath, Weapon Focus
(composite shortbow, scimitar).

Che Gildlands

Cultural Level: Savage (0).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Forests, Hills,
Plains and Swamps). In the Wildlands, man is not
welcome. This is a realm of beasts, an untouched
wilderness free from humanity's taming hand. The
Wildlands teem with life, from the ubiquitous
buzzing black flies to fantastic animals that can be
found nowhere else in Ravenloft. Endless, prime-
val rain forests dominate the landscape, lightless
places echoing with the shrieks of tropical birds
and monkeys. The forests blanket even the high
central plateau, where majestic gorillas dwell be-
side crystal waterfalls. In the south, the forest opens
into dry, sparse woodlands home to fearless herds of
elephants. The east stretches out into vast, whis-
pering savannas populated by a dazzling array of
herbivores, including antelope, warthogs, giraffes,
rhinos, zebras and wild cattle. There are predators
as well — lions, leopards, cheetahs, hyenas and
wild dogs — slinking through the swaying grasses
and waiting patiently. The swamps of the north are
the realms of reptiles, principally enormous, le-
thargic crocodiles. Curiously, snakes are nowhere
to be found in the Wildlands. The landscape is
dotted with countless lakes and waterholes and
crisscrossed by a web of meandering rivers; hippo-
potami loll in the shallows of these nameless waters.

Major Settlements: None.

 

 

The Folk: None. No one has every success-
fully settled in the Wildlands. It is as if the land
itself strives to drive out the invaders. Even tiny
camps on the edge of the forests or savannas are
attacked by vicious predators and beset by endless
catastrophes.

The Law: No formal government. The Wild-
lands are completely unsettled, ruled only by the
proverbial law of the jungle.
