 

 

  

 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources (not ex-
ploited) — timber, rubber, gold, silver, copper,
gems. Coinage — none.

While the treacherous landscape and fear-
some predators deter most outsiders from venturing
into the Wildlands, the vast, untapped resources of
the domain are seductive. Numerous explorers
have made forays into the domain, seeking emer-
alds and gold deep in the interior. Perhaps the most
tantalizing rumor is of a supposed “elephant grave-
yard,” a grim wasteland where centuries’ worth of
discarded ivory stretch as far as the eye can see.
Rajian trailblazers have been moderately success-
ful in their explorations, perhaps because they are
veterans of the Verdurous Lands’ harsh climate.
Such ventures remain risky undertakings, how-
ever, and it is unknown how many explorers have
vanished into the Wildlands only to be devoured
by ravenous beasts.

Realm Magic Rating: Unknown. The Wild-
lands’ magic rating seems to be around a 2.

Characters: None.

Zherisia
Once the city of Paridon was the bustling
center of a domain called Zherisia (zair-ISS-i-a).
Now the Paridoners find only unfamiliar lands

 

   

beyond their city, but old habits die hard, and some
still refer to their home as Zherisia. Although it
outwardly resembles an island rather thana cluster,
Paridon is not completely isolated. A wider world
still extends beyond Paridon’s streets, not outside
of the city but below it. Beneath its fog-bound
boulevards skulk living nightmares clawing at the
edges of the city’s shadows. Abominations squirm
and gibber through the labyrinthine sewers, the
natives of the subterranean domain of Timor.

Paridon

Cultural Level: Renaissance (9).

Landscape: Sparse Ecology (Temperate Settled
Area). The domain of Paridon (PAIR-i-dun) con-
sists of a single bleak city steeped in fog and
bloodshed. Its narrow streets of smooth cobble-
stones wind between tight clusters of buildings.
Dense fog, white as a shroud, perpetually blankets
the city, severely limiting visibility. Dark figures
and clattering horse carriages emerge from the haze
with startling swiftness. Horses are rarely ridden,
but such black carriages are frequently used to get
around; many folk also conduct their business and
errands on foot. The city has distinct neighbor-
hoods with wealthy and poor residential districts,
commercial avenues, a wharf along the Nodnal

Zherisia

 
