 

Riverand seedy back alleys filled with streetwalkers
and gamblers.

Most buildings are constructed to two or three
stories, with gabled roofs and narrow doors and
windows. Dressed stone blocks or plastered brick is
used in most homes and shops, with heavy timbers
for support. Roofs are shingled with thin wood or
slate. Most structures are gray, unfriendly and
sparsely adorned with severe stone faces or orna-
ments of black iron. The estates of the wealthy are
set back from the streets and surrounded by tall,
forbidding gates and lovingly tended gardens. Tidy
city parks once dotted Paridon, but most of these
have been converted into meager plots of crops.
Stunted food plants are also grown on rooftops. As
dusk approaches, young boys wander the streets,
lighting the iron streetlights that line the boule-
vards. In recent years, however, Paridoners rarely
venture outat night, fearful of violent madmen and
stranger things. The domain’s most infamous preda-
tor is Bloody Jack, a nearly mythic killer who goes
on gruesome rampages every thirteen years and
whose latest rampage comes due this year.

Temperatures in Paridon are normally cool
and mild, a weak drizzle sometimes falling like salty
tears. The fog persists through the muggy summer
months and during the bitter winters, when silent
snow blankets the city.

Major Settlements: None. Paridon is itself a
single settlement.

The Folk: Population— 11,600; Humans 99%,
Other 2%. Languages — Zherisian*. Religions —
Divinity of Mankind*.

Paridoners have wide hips and athletic builds,
though aristocrats tend to be portly and common-
ers lean. Their skin is fair and ruddy, sometimes
freckled lightly on the cheeks or nose. Eye color is
normally gray with a bluish or greenish cast, but
nearly any hue can occur. Their hair is straight or
slightly wavy, and color varies widely, from blond
to auburn to medium brown. Men cut their hair
short, often slicking it back in a roguish style that
the women find attractive. Neatly trimmed mus-
taches, beards and muttonchops are popular.
Women grow thei tresses extremely long but pin
them up in elaborate buns. Clothing among
Paridoners is somber and coarse, though expertly
tailored. Men wear collared shirts, trousers, high
boots, waistcoats and heavy cloaks. Noblemen don
tall black hats and tuck scarves under their necks.
Women wear long dresses, coats and high boots. It
is indecent for a woman to be outdoors without a

 

 

 

  

2

hat; common women wear simple bonnets, but the
hats of noblewomen are elaborate. Jewelry is worn
but is never flashy and is usually limited to solitary
tings, pins, cameos or necklaces.

 

Paridoners are sober people, the foggy stree!
of their city reflecting their demeanor. At one
time, they enjoyed food, drink, song and dance
with lusty enthusiasm, but their manner in recent
times is noticeably dry and detached. Although
violent criminals terrorize them, Paridoners re-
main perpetually stalwart. They are not easily
discouraged and are possessed of remarkable tenac-
ity and ingenuity. The class divide is deep and
ironclad. The wealthy never associate with com-
moners, who are expected to mind their place and
treat the nobles with respect and deference.
Although they worship no deities, many
Paridoners, especially aristocrats, subscribe to a
theological philosophy known as the Divinity of
Mankind. Lodges of male Paridoners meet weekly
to discuss philosophy, the arts and natural science.
The crux of their beliefs is perfection of the mind,
body and spirit, an aspiration that has spawned a
peculiar monastic tradition. Some folk whisper
that the Divinity conceals more sinister activities
and that lodge members participate in secretive
occult rites steeped in the language of alchemy.
The Law: Aristocratic republic. The gover-
nance of Paridon is firmly in the hands of the
aristocracy, who chafe at the notion of sharing
power with the unwashed masses. Male nobles
elect a City Council of nine from among their
ranks every five years. The council is responsible
for administrating most aspects of life in Paridon,
including collecting taxes, adjudicating disputes,
overseeing the city watch and organizing programs
for urban farming and public health. The council
watches out for the interests of the nobles first and
foremost, considering the welfare of the common-
ers only when it reinforces their image. Vice and
violent crimes are commonplace in the streets, yet
the council is preoccupied with punishing debtors
and seizing assets. Its only recent action that has
met with widespread approval has been to
strengthen the city watch and increase evening
patrols.

 

   

 

 

 

 

Despite the sharp class divide, Paridon’s soci-
ety is remarkably progressive in some respects.
Professional advocates argue in civil and criminal
trials, where legal precedent trumps legal principle.
Merchants can protect themselves from financial
ruin by paying a regular fee to usurers. The daily
