 

 

Paridon Newsbill is not controlled by the aristoc-
racy and is sometimes critical of the council’s
actions.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — beer,
spirits, furniture, cloth, ceramics, leather and iron
goods, jewelry, usury, culture, scientific knowl-
edge. Coinage — pound (gp), shilling (sp), pence
(cp).

Since Paridon has no arable land beyond the
city proper, starvation is a serious concern. Al-
though contact with other domains has fortunately
increased in recent years, allowing Paridon to pur-
chase foodstuffs, the city is still woefully underfed.

Most merchants who arrive in Paridon bring
raw materials, which in turn are used in handicrafts
that are sold in distant domains. Gradually, other
realms have also discovered that Paridon is one of
the most modern cities in Ravenloft, perhaps sec-
ond only to Port-a-Lucine in Dementlieu.
Accordingly, interest in Paridon’s culture and sci-
entific knowledge has grown.

Realm Magic Rating: Paridon’s magic rating
isa 3.

Characters: Classes fighters, monks, rogues.
Skills — Craft (clockmaking, gunsmithing,
locksmithing, weaving), Handle Animal, Hide,
Knowledge (nobility and royalty), Move Silently,
Profession (brewer, driver, porter, scribe), Sense
Motive, Sleight of Hand. Feats — Blind-Fight,
Exotic Weapon Proficiency (firearms), Improved
Unarmed Strike (plus derivatives), Quick Draw,
Skill Focus (Sense Motive), Weapon Focus (pistol,
rapier).

 

 

Cimor

Cultural Level: Savage (0).

Landscape: Sparse Ecology (Temperate Un-
derground). Timor (tim-OR) is a subterranean
domain lurking like an insidious plague beneath
the surface of the domain of Paridon. Composed of
endless miles of brick sewers, Timor is a literal
labyrinth. Anyone who intrudes on this light
realm finds that the sewers only seem to lead down,
not away from Paridon, as if channeling the filth
into the bowels of the earth. The tunnels range
from cavernous chambers to narrow, slimy passage-
ways. Streams of sluggishly flowing sewage are
underfoot everywhere, though rarely more than a
foot or two deep. The foul stench is unbearable, but
there is also genuine danger from toxic and explo-
sive gases. The sewers are alive with vermin,
particularly huge, loathsome centipedes. Grue-

 

 

some curtains of slime, mold and algae quiver on
the tunnel walls. Black, blasphemous shapes move
beyond the light of torches and lanterns, which
only rarely catch a hulking outline or a flash of red
eyes. Those unfortunate souls who become lost in
Timor find that wandering randomly has a sinister
tendency to lead the trespasser deeper underground.
The farther one travels into the depths, the more
frequent the glimpses of nightmarish creatures.
The sensation of being stalked is intense and sick-
ening, as if death at the hands of the faceless
shadows were dreadfully inevitable. Many travel-
ers, half mad with fear, simply sit down and wait for
Timor’s horrors to close in on them.

Major Settlements: None.

The Folk: None. Although the true nature of
Timor’s inhabitants is unknown, witnesses who
have seen monstrous shadows describe them as
something out of a nightmare.

The Law: Unknown. Few Paridoners can
speculate what kind of perverted commandments
the abominations of Timor would obey.

Trade and Diplomacy: Re
Coinage — none.

Many Paridoners donot even know that Timor
exists, though nearly all the city’s inhabitants have
heard stories of monsters beyond description emerg-
ing from the sewers. If Timor’s horrors are indeed
venturing into Paridon, their purpose must surely
be malevolent. Some Paridoner sages have ob-
served that the city’s sewers no longer conform to
ancient maps of the subterranean systems. While it
may be doubtful that the sewers have somehow
changed of their own accord, this discovery has
prompted several investigations of the tunnels.
Thus far, all such expeditions have either quickly
emerged after suffering suspicious accidents or van-
ished without a trace.

Realm Magic Rating: Unknown. Most likely
a3,

Characters: None.

Islands of Cerror

slands of Terror are domains surrounded
by the Mists; they do not share stable
borders with neighboring domains. They
are among the most secluded domains in
Ravenloft, though solitary wanderers
always seem to find their way tosuch remote places.

 

                  

 

 

 
