= Ue re

      

ning crack in the distance. Stooping low to the
ground, travelers find they can just make out a
relentless drone emanating from deep within the
earth. This horrendous sound, muted as itis, causes
their temples to throb with agony.

Major Settlements: None.

The Folk: None. If there is anything with a
mind lurking beneath Bluetspur’s wastes, then it is
surely monstrous and unfathomable.

The Law: Unknown.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources—unknown.
Coinage — none. No travelers willingly seek out
such a hostile, barren land as Bluetspur. Most folk
who find themselves here would rather blindly
brave the Mists than tarry in a place so forsaken.

Realm Magic Rating: Bluetspur’s magic rat-
ing lies between 2 and 4.

Characters: None.

GDenna

Cultural Level: Classical (4).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Hills,
Plains and Mountains). G’Henna is a bleak, wind-
beaten wasteland, a domain where hunger and
hardship are ways of life. Legend states that the
rampages of the beast-deity Zhakata the Devourer
wreaked havoc on the once fertile land. Constant,
brutal gales blow across G’Henna’s chill plains,
bending the stunted grasses and brown shrubs. The
rocky, dry soil is poor for both farming and grazing;
herds of emaciated cattle and goats roam the wastes
forlornly. Craggy uplands rise like broken teeth
throughout the domain, casting gray shadows across
the land. The domain is covered with desolate
stretches of cold desert, salt flats and fields of fine,
windblown ash. Savage windstorms scream out of
the wastes, burning the skin and driving even
stalwart herdsmen to safety. The silty, brackish
waters of the Eel’s Flow and Drogach Rivers mean-
der through the badlands, providing little
nourishment to the surrounding farmsteads.

Zhukar is G’Henna’s solitary city, and its fear-
ful populace is ruled by starvation and miserable
submission. The grim buildings are constructed of
massive stone blocks roughly hewn and pale dun in
color. Everywhere are carvings of monstrous stone
faces bristling with horns and tusks, Colossal pillars
and intricate mosaics of polished bone adorn the
grander buildings. Beyond the city, many
G’'Hennans dwell in round tents of ragged hide,
which can be easily packed up and moved when
folk must search for better grazing grounds. Al-

© benna

though chill, G’Henna’s climate is temperate over-
all. Its winters, however, are unforgiving. Winter
temperatures drop cold enough to crack stone, and
the muddy rivers freeze completely through.

Major Settlements: Zhukar (pop. 10,100).

The Folk: Population — 19,500; Humans 98%,
Other 2%. Languages — Balok”, Falkovnian. Reli-
gions — Zhakata*.

G’Hennans are lean and gaunt, their features
sunken. Their skin is fair, though often with a faint
sallow, ruddy or dusky tone. Raw windburns com-
monly afflict those who dwell on the plains.
G’Hennans’eyesare always exceptionally dark and
often black as midnight. Their straight hair is a
drab gray-brown or flat black in color. Men keep
their hair short and slicked back and wear long,
closely trimmed sideburns. Mustaches are not un-
common, but all married men wear a beard, which
is waxed stiffly into a long braid. Women grow their
hair toa moderate length, pinning it up under thin
shawls. G’Hennan clothing is humble and often
drab. Men wear blousy white shirts, vests with stiff
collars, wide trousers and short boots. Older men
also wrap themselves in long, woolen robes and
don small cloth caps. Women wear long dresses
with wide hems and high collars, usually over baggy
pantaloons. Those who must survive on the bitter
wastelands don long, thick coats and round fur

 
