   

hats. Clothing is always neutral in color: black,
white, beige or brown. Jewelry is rarely seen except
among Zhakata’s clerics, who wear grisly orna-
ments crafted of human bone and teeth.

G’Hennans live in fear of Zhakata the De-
stroyer, a ruthless beast-deity that exists only to
annihilate whatever they toil to produce. All as-
pects of life in G’Henna are shaped around endless
supplication of Zhakata. This constant devotion
wears visibly on the G’Hennans. Grim and humor-
less, they have neither the time nor the inclination
to savor pleasures such as dance or song. The
horrors of starvation and the bottomless cruelty of
Zhakata’s clerics have long ago broken the spirits of
most folk. Despite this, they have many sacred
traditions, which are adhered to with solemn strict-
ness. Mealtimes are hallowed events, and families
gather dutifully, squatting on woven carpets at a
low table, to partake of the meager fare. One of the
most sacred heirlooms a family can possess is the
guesting cup, a chalice made from the skull of an
ancestor who was martyred by starvation.

The Law: Theocracy. Yagno Petrovna,
Prophet of Zhakata, rules G’Henna from Zhukar,
his divine word regarded as the supreme law of the
land. Petrovna is a passionate zealot blessed with
feverish visions of the Destroyer. Three times a
week, he preaches of Zhakata’s boundless fury
before the city’s assembled throngs, working him-
self into a roaring fit of religious fervor. Petrovna
sits atop the mammoth religious hierarchy of
Zhakata’s church, guiding it as the living voice of
the Destroyer. There is no authority in G’Henna
save that of the church. Clad in their distinctive
vestments of scarlet and orange, clerics and holy
warriors perform all military and civic duties.
Petrovna also has a secret order of cleric enforcers
known as the Inquisition. Unlike most of the
church hierarchy, they operate from the shadows,
vigilant for heresy and dissidence.

Zhakata is a feral, destructive deity who ea-
gerly tears down whatever the G’Hennans build
and devours whatever they produce. To placate
him, the G’Hennans are expected to donate all the
food they produce directly to the church, which
receives the offerings ina sunrise ceremony known
as Zhakata’s Taking. Whatever food remains by
sunset is returned to the people as Zhakata’s Dole.
Fasting is a sacred sacrifice in G’Henna, and the
Inquisition harshly punishes black market dealings
in foodstuffs. The worship of any deities but Zhakata
is forbidden, as is the practice of arcane magic.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Once a week, Petrovna performs a horrifying
miracle, transforming a criminal into a deformed
abomination as a sacrifice to Zhakata. The only
persistent hostilities the church encounters are
from the barbaric bandits who dwell deep in the
hinterlands. Hatefully atheistic, these raiders con-
duct a clandestine war of attrition against the
church and Petrovna. Little is known of their
cunning and shadowy leader, who is simply called
the Jackal.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
corn, oats, turnips, potatoes, sheep, goats, cattle,
wine, beer, iron, copper, lead, iron goods. Coinage
— stoneclaw (gp), irontusk (sp), bonefang (cp).

GHenna has struggled to maintain contact
with the realms of the Core in the hope that
commerce brings desperately needed food to the
domain. Most merchants prefer to leave the do-
main to its fanatical clerics, however; the land
produces few resources that cannot be obtained in
more hospitable lands. Petrovna cares nothing for
his realm’s standing among outsiders. His only
concerns are to ensure that Zhakata is properly
venerated and to maintain order within G’Henna;
the Inquisition hastily removes any foreigners who
interfere with either task.

   

 

Realm Magic Rating: G’Henna’s magic rating
of 3 affects only its clerics. Others function as if at
magic rating 1.

Characters: Classes — barbarians, clerics,
fighters, rogues. Skills — Craft (blacksmithing,
pottery, sculpture, stonemasonry), Diplomacy,
Handle Animal, Intimidate, Knowledge (religion),
Profession (brewer, farmer, herdsman, miner,
scribe), Sense Motive. Feats — Endurance, Im-
proved Critical, Jaded, Skill Focus (Knowledge
[religion]), Toughness, Weapon Focus (whip).

Odiare

Cultural Level: Medieval (7), though there
are remnants of a Renaissance (9) culture.

Landscape: Sparse Ecology (Temperate Settled
Area). Odiare (oh-dee-AR-ay) consists of a soli-
tary, foggy village where the memories of childhood
horrors are still fresh in the minds of the populace.
The town’s narrow streets are paved in smooth
cobblestones and are blessedly free of waste, mud
and other detritus. The humble homes and shops
are tidy two-story structures built of soft stone
brick, plastered and painted white or cream. The
shallow, gabled roofs are shingled with dusky red-
orange tiles. Many of the village’s structures are in

 

 
