 

 

  
 
   
 

 

 

asorry state, however. Roofs are marred by gaping
holes, plaster crumbles away in chunks and shat-
tered glass hangs limply in window frames. The
Odiarans labor tirelessly to maintain the buildings
as best they can. The Secolo Theater — once
gutted by fire — has recently been rebuilt for use as
avillage meeting house. Nearby, a bronze statue of
a nameless woman tops a fountain in the village
square, the mournful figure clutching a broken doll
to her chest. Hidden between the buildings are a
handful of stunted gardens, the only source of food
for the Odiarans. Overhead, the sun traces a low,
lazy path through the hazy sky for a mere 6 hours
each day. The long nights, meanwhile, are starless
and chill; an eerie stillness settles over the village,
marked only rarely by the distant echoes of laugh-
ingchildren. The climate is moderate in the village,
with mild summers and cool, wet winters.

Major Settlements: None. Odiare is itself a
single settlement.

The Folk: Population — fewer than 100; Hu-
mans 100%. Languages — Odiaran*. Religions —

none.

 

Asa group, the Odiarans are young. Save fora
demented, elderly toymaker, no villagers are over
the age of thirty, and a few of the young adult
couples have infants or toddlers of their own. They
are trim and lean folk, if a bit undernourished.
Their skin ranges from fair to medium olive-tan,
often with a ruddy or sallow tinge. Eye color varies
widely, from pale green to deep brown. Their
straight or finely curled hairranges from dark blond
to raven black, though darker hues are more com-
mon. Males keep their hair short and styled back,
with young men always going about clean shaven.
Females grow their hair to just below the shoulder.
Odiaran clothing is humble and often threadbare
from years of wear. The boys and men wear loose
shirts, breeches and high socks. Women and girls
wear long, blousy dresses, tying their hair back with
wide ribbons. Bright colors are rare in Odiaran
garb, with most clothing appearing in neutral tones
or washed-out hues of red, orange and yellow.

The Odiarans are genial and considerate folk
prizing simple values such as cooperation, sharing
and compassion. Although they are diligent and
hard working, they also have an enduring affection
for performance, including music, dance and the-
ater. Honesty comes easy to them, but a sheltered
life in their strange village has made them more
than a little naive. Their only fear is Maligno,
Odiare’s persistent bogeyman. According to leg-

2 aig Q) ~
ne) 3 = Chapter i

Sour = ie
— 3

 

   
     

end, Maligno isa wooden puppet that skulks in the
village’s shadows, gleefully watching the Odiarans
from hidden crannies. Maligno loves children first
and foremost, but unfortunately his affection is
twisted and malicious. The Odiarans believe it was
Maligno who massacred the adults of the village
nearly twenty years ago, aided by an army of ma-
levolent toys. Although the little marionette has
notbeen sighted forsome time, many older Odiarans
are terrified that he will return for them soon.
Maligno’s creator, an old toymaker named
Guiseppe, still dwells in Odiare, laboring at his
workbench in the depths of bleary madness.

The Law: Informal commonwealth. The
Odiarans conduct themselves in a remarkably
peaceful and orderly manner. The oldest villagers
have authority by virtue of their wisdom and expe-
rience; other Odiarans obey their requests
unhesitatingly. Most Odiarans respect in particu-
lar the words of Rudolfo and Giselle Velutto, the
village’s eldest inhabitants at twenty-three and
twenty-seven respectively. Early morning town
meetings serve as a focal point for organizing the
various tasks for the day. Chores are doled out
according to each individual’s skills and strengths:
Gardens must be tended, buildings must be re-
paired and maintained and numerous tools and
everyday items must be crafted by hand. Older
citizens teach the young the fundamental skills and
trades that are vital to the village’s continued
survival. Although any Odiaran is free to leave the
village and settle elsewhere, those who choose the
Mists over Odiare are considered reckless and
irresponsible.

 

 

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources — wheat,
corn, potatoes, chestnuts, almonds, olives. Coinage
—none. Scattered silver currency can be found in
Odiare, but the citizens have no use for hard coin
and see little value in such baubles.

Odiare is a secluded and lonely village where
many months often pass before outsiders wander
into its quiet streets. The Odiarans are friendly to
travelers, but their demeanor is tinged with appre-
hension. Indeed, Odiarans urge such outsiders to
leave the village as soon as possible; they fear that
Maligno will slay any newcomers he perceives as a
threat to the children.

Realm Magic Rating: Odiare’s magic rating is
a2

Characters: Classes — bards, fighters, rogues.
Skills — Craft (blacksmithing, carpentry,
leatherworking, stonemasonry, weaving), Diplo-

Ss

     
