 

iniaoyy Heal Perform (Gallad) butfooneny dance,
juggling, lute, storytelling), Profession (farmer),
Search. Feats — Courage, Dodge (plus deriva-
tives), Iron Will, Skill Focus (Craft), Weapon
Focus (dagger).

Rokushima Caiyoo

Cultural Level: Dark Age (5).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Temperate Forests,
Hills and Mountains). Rokushima Taiyoo (ro-koo-
SHEE-ma TA-EE-oo),alsoknownas the Six Islands
of the Sun, is a lush archipelago that rises impossi-
bly from the surrounding Poison Sea. The domain’s
sobriquet might seem to bea misnomer, as there are
only four isles. The Rokuma, however, assert that
the two vanished islands sank into the ocean when
their shujin, or local lords, were killed. The remain-
ing isles surround the glassy surface of the Great
Mirror Lake, which is fed by clearmountain springs.
The waters of the lake rush between the islands,
cascading down jagged slopes of coral and into the
venomous depths of the Poison Sea. The roiling
Nightmare Mists shroud the lake’s western outlet
tothesea, and ships voyaging into the dread vapors
never emerge. The snowcapped peak of Mount
Frost soars high above the surrounding islands, its
slopes purportedly riddled with corrupted shrines

 

and caches of plundered treasure. The island land-
scape is rugged and picturesque, blanketed by damp
evergreen forests, arching wood bridges and misty
waterfalls.

Structures in Rokushima Téiyoo are elegant
and possess a distinct aesthetic style. Wood is used
almost exclusively in construction, fitted together
without nails. Decorative gables, eaves and screens
are commonplace. The walls and sliding doors are
often made of thin paper on a wooden frame,
allowing for easy repairs following the domain’s
vicious storms and earthquakes. The shujin, how-
ever, dwell in enormous stone castles with multiple
tiers climbing up to touch the sun. Serene shrines
both magnificent and humble dot the islands;
located on sites of natural beauty and power, they
are identifiable by the sacred torii gates. The weather
in the domain is fierce and merciless. Summers are
oppressive and muggy, autumns beset by rampag-
ing typhoons. Winters are brutally cold, burying
the domain under endless snow. Springtime is
short but comparatively pleasant, a time when the
islands are covered in pale flower blossoms.

Major Settlements: Beikoku (pop. 1,800),
Chuugoka (pop. 3,100), Eikoku (pop. 2,300),
Roshiya (2,500).

 

 

 
