 

   

The Folk: Population — 19,300; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages —Rokuma*. Religions —the
Kami*.

The Rokuma are slight in stature but blessed
with trim builds and physical grace. Their skin tone
varies from creamy white to ruddy brown, usually
with a sallow tinge. Eye color tends to be dark,
ranging from hazel to midnight black. Rokuma hair
is straight, sleek and jet-black. Men and women
both grow their hair long, arranging it in elaborate
fashion with wooden pins, though commoner men
sometimes prefer a shorter style. Men are clean
shaven, regarding facial hair as barbarous. Women
and men alike wear wide-sleeved robes belted at
the waist with a sash over a long shirt or shift. Men
also don loose trousers or wrapped leggings. Soft
slippers or wooden sandals are the customary foot-
wear. Male commoners are fond of wide straw hats
to keep off the sun and snow. Black and soft pastels
are favored colors in clothing.

The Rokuma are reserved and enigmatic folk,
ascribing great value to social decorum and aes-
thetics. They prize beauty and harmony, whether
in the natural world or in their relationships. They
are reverent toward the kami, the spirits that are
believed to dwell in all things, and worship at
breathtaking natural shrines. The elderly are given
great respect, and proper etiquette is imperative
even among the poorest commoners. The Rokuma
have a deep respect for the warrior’s skill with
swotd and how. They see beauty in all of life’s
pursuits and feel secure in their place in the natural
order. The constant warring between the island
shujin, however, has created an atmosphere of
terror in the domain’s villages. The bloody conflict
has cast a fearful shadow over the Rokuma, who
endure harassment and brutality from the prideful
samurai of their masters.

The Law: Feudal hereditary aristocracy. Each
of Rokushima Taiyoo’s four islands is ruled by a
shujin, a feudal warlord with numerous lesser noble
warriors under his vassalage. The domain’s shujin
are all brothers, endlessly bickering over the birth-
right each feels was denied him by a deceased
father. Although each shujin is ostensibly respon-
sible for overseeing his island realm, the brothers
are completely obsessed with breaking one another's
power. Their slow, smoldering war wreaks havoc
on the lives of their subjects. Their samurai clash
openly in the streets, heedless of the commoners
who are caught in the conflict. Ninja clans slink
through the shadows, carrying out sabotage and

 

   

 

 

 

 

assassinations. Periodically, the struggle explodes
into outright warfare as the forces of each brother
slaughter one another in gruesome battles. In most
villages, there is no longer any civic order at all. In
short, the greed and pride of the shujin is literally
tearing the Six Islands of the Sun apart. The
Rokuans try to carry on with their lives, hoping
thatadherence to tradition will carry them through
the dark times. Many folk, however, have turned to
shrewd brigands called yakuzato protect them from
their own nobility.

Trade and Diplomacy: Resources —tice, beans,
tea, mulberries, citrus, herring, mackerel, tuna,
sardines, salmon, crabs, squid, seaweed, beer, sil-
ver, copper, iron, lead, silk. Coinage —
chrysanthemum (gp), water lily (sp), cherry blos-
som (cp).

Rokushima Téiyoo has long been an isolated
domain embroiled in its own exhausting conflicts
and unaware of the wider world beyond its shores.
Recent contact with Dementlieuse and Darkonian
sailors has not encouraged the Rokuans, who have
found these outsiders brutish and disrespectful.
Nonetheless, the presence of such travelers may
prove to be a wild card in the struggle between the
shujin. The brothers have taken notice of these
foreign strangers and are even now scheming of
ways to take advantage of their boorish naiveté and
tantalizing weapons.

Realm Magic Rating:
magic rating is a 3.

Characters: Classes— druids, fighters, monks,
rogues, wizards. Skills — Craft (basketweaving,
bowmaking, calligraphy, _ shipmaking,
weaponsmithing, weaving), Diplomacy, Knowl-
edge (nature, nobility and royalty), Perform (chant,
drama, drums, harp, flute), Profession (brewer,
farmer, fisher, sailor, sctibe), Swim, Use Rope.
Feats — Expertise (plus derivatives), Haunted,
Improved Unarmed Strike (plus derivatives), Two-
Weapon Fighting (plus derivatives), Weapon Focus
(longsword).

 

Rokushima Taiyoo's

 

Souragne

Cultural Level: Chivalric (8).

Landscape: Full Ecology (Warm Forests and
Swamps). Souragne (soo-RAW-nya) is a domain
that swarms and slithers with life, a lush river delta
choked with dark bayous. Called Maison d’Sablet
by the Souragniens, the wooded swamp that covers
most of the domain stretches out like a languid
snake. The muggy air is thick with gray fog and

cg
