buzzing insects. Pale green moss hangs heavy on
the cypress trees, where raccoons and opossums
clamber. The few folk who dwell in the bayou pole
their wooden rafts through the fetid waters, keep-
inga wary eye out for alligators and more unnatural
threats. At night, the swamps come alive with the
trilling of frogs, crickets and cicadas. The delta fans
northward toward the Souragne’s warm, shallow
coastline along the Murky Sea. Near the center of
the domain is Lake Noir, its waters slick with algae
and choked with cattails.

Most settlements are in the east, where ground
is slightly higher and flooding less severe. The
domain’s villages are cramped and sweltering, the
gray stone edifices of their buildings looming over
narrow, muddy streets. Balconies and gates of
wrought iron adorn the two-story homes and shops,
alongside stone carvings of snakes and dancing
skeletons. The plantations of the nobility feature
magnificent estates with lustrous white pillars and
gloomy willow groves. The high water table pre-
vents traditional burial in Souragne, so the dead
are entombed in morbidly beautiful mausoleums.
Unrelenting, oppressive heat and humidity mark
the domain’s weather. The autumn rainy season

Cristepas.

 

brings temperatures that are only slightly cooler
than the norm.

Major Settlements: Marais d’Tarascon (pop.
300), Port d’Elhour (pop. 1,200).

The Folk: Population — 3,100; Humans 99%,
Other 1%. Languages — Souragnien*. Religions —
the Loa*.

Souragniens are generally short in stature and
slight of build, but their appearance otherwise
exhibits remarkable variation. Their skin can range
from milky pale to a deep coffee brown. Eye colors
vary widely, from pale blue to hazel to nearly black.
Hair is either straight or tightly curled and any-
where from auburn to raven black in color. Men
keep their hair very short or shoulder length, with
nobles preferring the latter, and shun facial hair.
Women let their hair grow quite long, and while
commoners don’t mind wild and tangled tresses,
noblewomen style their hair elaborately, pinning it
up in delicate fashion. Among commoners, cloth-
ing is threadbare and humble; men wear a loose
shirt and trousers, women a blouse and long skirt.
Such garb is usually naturally colored rather than
dyed. Nobles, on the other hand, go about in
exquisite garments of vibrant hue. Men wear blousy
shirts under jerkins, sashes and breeches with high

a
