   

Zo

boots. Women wear revealing, ruffled dresses in
pastel colors. Jewelry is common among the aris-
tocracy, who love to show off their wealth through
such baroque adornments.

The class divide in Souragne is deep and
bloody. Property owners, no matter how humble
theirassets, are the elite, and all others must toil to
serve them. Commonersare little better than slaves;
they’re exploited by the aristocracy until they
collapse, then discarded. Among the nobles, it is
acceptable to savagely abuse commonets, even
without reason. In villages, poor farmers rub shoul-
ders with gamblers and streetwalkers, attempting

 

 

to drown their miseries in vice. All Souragniens,
regardless of class, tend to be earthy, passionate
folk. They have little respect for academic knowl-
edge, instead valuing cunning and strength of
character

Souragniens are also superstitious people, their
beliefs revolving around natural spirits called loa:
The loaare the embodiment of natural forces; chief
among them is the Maiden of the Swamp, who
represents Maison d’Sablet itself, and the Lord of
the Dead. While numerous loa are revered,
Souragniens truly fear the Lord of the L
has the power to take the deceased as his own,

 

ad, who

raising them as zombies. Wild festivals throughout
the year honor the loa and appease the Lord of the
Dead in particular. Many customs in Souragne are
belie

success and romance or to strike one’s rivals with

ed to tap the power of the loa to attract

 

misfortune. When desperate, Souragiens some-
times turn to the Voodan, a sectetive people who
can work dread enchantments and command the
undead. One of the most powerful Voodan is un-
doubtedly Chicken Bone, a shrewd old man who is
rumored to have the ear of numerous loa, including
the Lord of the Dead.

The Law: Independent aristocratic settle-
ments. Villages in Souragne are essentially
autonomous, the nobles electing lord mayor from
among their ranks every two years. Precious little
governance actually occurs, however; lord mayors
merely act as voices for the aristocracy, who ci
and enforce laws in the domain to suit their needs.
There are no standing militias in Souragnien vil-
lages, but young noblemen are expected to serve a
term as village constables.

 

Although he may be only a mythical being,
the Lord of the Dead is so deeply feared in Souragne
that the folk follow customs intended to please
him. The dead are not interred for four days follow-

TAN yee
N i)

 
