Oh, how 1 loathe these nights. Month after month, 1 try to forget this horror, but then
the moon's tortures return. This horrid watt for the inevitable would drive me to distraction
if not for this journal. My body may betray me, but 1 am my thoughts; 1 must cling to
them for the sake of my soul, and for the sake of my belove —

The spasms are starting. 1 have little time left. 1 can feet the hot blood flowing
through my limbs; 1 can feel the moon rising — that wretched moon! No. That rage is
not mine. That ts the beast; 1 rhgagsinl surrender to it. 1 must focus; 1 must keep control.
1 must think only of ty beloves

My skin is crawling; oh, tt burus! Just look at him! How can he understand this
suffering? He chains we like a beast in this dank cellar! He watches my agony! Does he
enjoy it? No! 1 must not think thats I know it is not true. He is kind! He is gentle! He
is protecting me from myself? He has done so much for me in the years since that monster
afflicted me with its curse. He has done so much, when others would destroy me. He is
nity true beloved agli

Aud that is why'the beast hates him! It Inates his kindness! 1t detests his loves
Gods, the paint My hands — 1 can barely command my own hands. But 1 must focus!
If 1 do not, the beast will kill him! Despite all his love, the beast stands between us. For
as long as 1 am cursed, we can never be together, can never be wed, can never have a
family. The moon is in me now; 1 can hear her! She wants me to feast upon him! 1 will
“wot! 1 will not i ; ,

pom

\

a

Head pounding — can hear my bones cracking! Must cling to our love; it is all 1
have! 1 cammot be saved from the curse, but 1 can save my beloved from me! There is
only one way to save him. 1 must — 1 must make hin jon me. If Tam a beast, and he
is just a man, then he will always be in danger. But ih we are both beasts, then we can
hunt together under the moon. We will be happy under her silver light! we will be
mates! We will be a pack! Nothing will come betweengg ;

That is why 1 took the saw! That is why 1 cut theseNictrirsed biting chains! He
would stop me if he knew. 1 will be free! 1 H not want to hurt him — 1 will not hurt
him a: 1 will only bite him once! 1 just need to taste his flesh! But 1 myist cling to
my thoughts. 1f not 1 will kill hims 1 will tear him! 1 can smell his fea

Must not let the beqst.avin! 1 will save our lover Must keep control!
Control! CONTROL Pre

THSE NO MY HNE

“Anonymous journal entry

 
