 

 

ne of the most fascinating individuals
ever to walk the Land of Mists was the
late Dr. Rudolph van Richten. He was a
man of great learning, yet also of simple
desires, who was content to live a peace-
ful and quiet life with his wife and son. Thissimple,
happy life was not to be, as fate and misfortune
combined to rob him of his family and his innocent
view of the world. The remainder of his life was
spent hunting, fighting and destroying the night-
mares most men know exist but refuse to
acknowledge. However, perhaps the greater ac-
complishment was not in battling the children of
the night, but rather in documenting and research-
ing them. In the course of his life, van Richten
wrote nine treatises that changed the face of the
Land of Mists. Each one delved into the origins,
powers and habits of a different creature and above
all divulged how they might be opposed and de-
feated. Van Richten’s work served as a beacon to
those who refuse to stand helpless before the terrors
that confront them and continues to serve as such
after his untimely passing.

Van Richren’s guides greatly added to the
extant knowledge of certain monsters. Unfortu-
nately, van Richten disappeared with his work
unfinished. There are many foes to face in Ravenloft
besides those described below. However, even if
van Richten’s guides lack the information required
todefeat a given enemy, the spirit of determination
and exhortation to act found within each always
applies.

Happily, the legacy of Van Richten lives on in
the efforts of Laurie and Gennifer Weathermay-
Foxgrove, twin sisters inspired by the great doctor
and driven to continue his efforts after his disap-
pearance. Their access to the good doctor's
unfinished notes and observations, coupled with
their own research and experience, have led to the
publication of Van Richten’s Arsenal and Van
Richten’s Guide to the Walking Dead. Their
ambitions encompass the publication of still other
guides to the monsters and other special creatures
that inhabit the Land of the M:

A summary of some of the information di-
vulged in each of the original great volumes penned
by Van Richten follows and should be considered
an addition to the information already provided in
the Monster Manual and of special interest to player
characters specializing in hunting down the nefari-
ous creatures that menace the people of the Dread
Realm.

 

 

 

 

 

Vampires

was all but assassinated in my bed,
wounded here,” she touched her breast,
“and never was the same since.”
“Were you near dying?”
“Yes, very —acruel love —strange love,
that would have taken my life. Love will have its
sacrifices. No sacrifice without blood.”

— J. Sheridan Le Fanu, Carmilla

Of all the monsters van Richten faced, vam-
pires bore the brunt of his hatred. A vampire stole
the lives of his wife and child and thereby changed
his life forever. Unfortunately, van Richten is far
from the only man to suffer from the activities of
these nocturnal predators. As unliving avatars of
greed and gluttony, vampires sow misery wherever
they lair. Those who seek to rid the night of these
monsters do a great service to all but should be
advised that they are quite fearsome, and only grow
more so with time.

 

 

 

Feeding

Vampires are unlike most undead creatures in
that they must feed. For most of the undead, all
biological processes have ended, including the
need for food, but vampires are not so fortunate.
Others must suffer for this misfortune, for vampires
take their sustenance from living creatures, most
often in the form of blood.

A vampire must feed on blood daily. The
typical way to. feed is to use the blood drain special
attack ona living victim. A vampire must ingest no
fewer than 4 Constitution points of blood per day
to remain in perfect “health.” For each day this
requirement is not met, the vampire suffers one
negative level and its powers are reduced as ifithad
lost an age category (see below). A vampire cannot
fall below one level orbelow Fledging status through
lack of feeding. A vampire who does fall to one
level through lack of blood becomes a feral preda-
tor incapable of anything but the pursuit of
sustenance.

 

Negative levels persist until the vampire is
able to feed sufficiently. For each day the vampire
ingests the minimum requirement of blood, one
lost level and age category are restored.

Although vampires prefer to draw blood from
living humans orhumanoids, they can ingest blood
from other sources, such asanimals or fresh corpses.
Blood from these sources is not as nourishing, with
only half counting toward the daily requirement.

 
