      
  

certain characteristics in common, there can be y =| =
considerable difference in the powers and weak- . \ bien
nesses exhibited from individual to individual. oy TEE Pe

Vampires gain salient powers as they age. The " fi
powers gained vary from vampire to vampire, though
vampires of the same bloodline tend to have simi-
lar powers. A vampire’s salient powers usually
reflect its personality; harsh, controlling vampire
might gain the ability to command undead, while
a skulking, treacherous vampire might be able to
turn invisible.

The following list provides examples ofsalient
powers. The typical vampire gains one salient
power for every two hundred years of its existence.

Animate Dead (Su): The vampire can cast an
animate dead spell once per day. The spell takes
effect as if cast by a 12th-level sorcerer.

Command Undead (Su): The vampire can re-
buke or command undead as if it were a 12th-level
cleric. Ifthe vampire can already rebuke undead, its
effective level when rebuking is either raised by 4
or raised to 12, whichever is greater.

Dimension Door (Su): Once per day the vam-
pire can cast a dimension door spell. This spell takes
effect as if cast by a 12th-level sorcerer. The vam-
pire cannot use the dimension door to cross running
water or to enter a sanctified place or a home into
which it has not been invited.

Extra Form (Su): This power improves the
vampire’s Alternate Form quality and can be taken
multiple times. Each time it is taken, the vampire
gains the ability toassume one extra form. Ravenloft
vampires are known to take a much wider variety
of forms; possible forms include but are not limited
to dire rat, hawk, light horse, panther (use leopard
statistics), owl, raven and snake.

Fire Resistance (Ex): Fire is usually an effective
weapon against vampires, but not against those
with this ability. The vampire has fire resistance of
20.

Frightful Presence (Su): The vampire has the
frightful presence special attack (Monster Manual)
with default range and duration. The trigger for
this power varies between vampires, but it is most
often an attack. Other possible triggers include
changing to an alternate form, snarling or even
smiling or looking into someone’s eyes.

Hypnotic Vapor (Su): The vampire can use its
dominate ability while in gaseous form. All the
normal rules for this power apply. To the target, the
gaseous vampire appears to roil in a hypnotic
pattern, while colors shimmer in its misty form.

i
