 

Only the target perceives these changes in the
vampire’s gaseous form.

Improved Domination (Su): Will saves against
the vampire’s domination attack are made with a—
4 penalty.

Improved Energy Drain (Su): The vampire’s
slam attack deals an extra negative level on those
hit. This ability may be taken up to three times,
with each time adding another negative level to
the energy drain.

Invisibility (Su): The vampire can cast an invis-
ibility spell, upon itself only, at will. The spell takes
effect as if cast by a 12th-level sorcerer.

Light Sleep (Ex): Unlike most vampires, this
vampire isnot helpless during daylight hours. While
it still must rest, it can be awakened by ambient
noise or motion and definitely is awakened by any
attack. The sleeping vampire may make a Listen
check with a—5 penalty to notice a noise or a Spot
check with a —10 penalty to notice a light or
motion (such asa torch or the opening of a casket).
Once the threat is dealt with, the vampire must
return to sleeping.

Scent (Ex): All vampires have incredibly sharp
senses, but a vampire with this ability has.a sense of
smell even more acute than usual. The vampire
gains the Scent feat (see “Scent” in the D&D
Dungeon Master's Guide).

Shroud of Darkness (Su): The vampire can
create a field of magical darkness at will. The
vampire can create this field only around itself, but
it can see normally in this darkness. The vampire’s
darkness is destroyed instantly if any part of it
comes into contact with natural sunlight. Except
in those respects, this ability is identical to a
darkness spell cast by a 12th-level sorcerer.

Instead of gaining a salient power, a vampire
might instead develop a salient weakness. As with
salient powers, salient weaknesses tend to reflect
the personality of their possessor, often serving to
exaggerate or highlight the vampire’s character
flaws. A vampire given to anger might suffer from
blood lust, while a particularly vain vampire might
develop pallid flesh. The following list provides
examples of salient weaknesses.

Blood Lust. The sight or smell of blood dri
this monster into an uncontrollable frenzy. It is
compelled to consume the inciting blood and may
do nothing else, though it will not charge into
certain death. It may risk death, however, and

  

 

 

certainly does not hold back from combat. The
vampire gains no bonuses from this frenzied state
Once the inciting source of blood is consumed, the
vampire is temporarily sated and does not risk

frenzy again until an hour has passed.

Corpse Feeder. The vampire is unable to drink
blood from a living being and instead must sate
itself on blood from fresh corpses. The vampire’s
Blood Drain ability still functions normally on
living creatures, but the vampire receives no nour-
ishment. On the positive side, the vampire receives
full nourishment from blood drawn from fresh
humanoid corpses, but this small benefit is more
than counteracted by the vampire’s need to kill its
victims before feeding. Such vampires cannot help
but attract attention quickly, and most must lead a
nomadic existence.

Gluttony. The vampire must consume twice as
much blood per day (8 Constitution points instead
of 4) or suffer the penalties described above under
Feeding.

 

Pallid Flesh. Vampires are often pale, but usu-
ally not toa suspicious degree. A vampire with this
weakness, however, has skin as white as ivory.
Without great pains to hide this disfigurement, the
afflicted vampire is unlikely to be mistaken for one
of the living. A particularly unfortunate vampire
might instead have pale gray, green or even trans-
lucent skin.

 

Sterile. The vampire is incapable of creating
other vampires or vampire spawn. It must instead
rely on lesser undead or on dominated living beings
for service and protection.

Unique Allergen. The vampire suffers from a
strong aversion to a common substance, in addi-
tion tothe standard aversion to garlic most vampires
share. The vampire cannot enter an area contain-
ingthe substance, norcan itapproach an individual
with the substance on his person. Common aller-
gens include rose petals, salt and wolfsbane, though
any herb or mineral might function as an allergen.

 

 

Unnatural Aura. The vampire exudes an aura
of evil and death that frightens animals. Untrained
animals flee if possible and may attack if cornered,
while trained animals are skittish and unrespon-
sive. All Handle Animal checks made in the
vampire’s presence suffer a -10 penalty, and the
animals’ reaction to the vampire usually arouses
suspicion. Magical beasts and vermin are unaf-
fected unless the DM rules otherwise. Animals
under the vampire’s control are also unaffected.
