 

  

Advancement
Vampires can continue to gain levels in the
classes they had in life, but their growth is usually
much slower than a living creature’s. The average
vampire gains one level each time it goes up an age
category. Particularly intelligent and active vam-
pires might gain levels ata faster rate, while sedate
or withdrawn vampires could gain none at all.

A vampire could conceivably gain levels in a
new class instead, but this is very rare. Vampires
usually lack the flexibility of thought and view-
point required to learn a new class.

Vampire Spawn

Vampire spawn are subject to the same rules
on feeding and sleeping as vampires, but they do
not gain any enhanced abilities or salient powers as
they age. Unlike a vampire, a spawn may be re-
duced to 0 Hit Dice from lack of feeding. When this
happens it is irrevocably destroyed, crumbling to
dust.

When a vampire spawn’s creator is destroyed,
one of several things happen to the spawn. Which
event takes place is not predictable; as with many
facets of vampirism, consequences vary from vam-
pire to vampire.

In most cases, the vampire spawn are un-
changed except for their newfound freedom of will.
The spawn usually begin a solitary, predatory exist-
ence, although some may seek out social interaction
with the living or with others of their kind. Newly
freed vampire spawn have even been known to
form hunting packs with their “siblings,” though
such packs usually fall apart due to competition
and infighting.

Sometimes all a slain vampire’s spawn are
instantly destroyed. This is most common with
younger, weaker vampires. The worst of the known
possibilities is that the vampire spawn may sud-
denly mature into vampires themselves. The
vampire spawn, in effect, start over as Fledgling
vampires, with the vampire template being applied
to the statistics the creatures had in life. Destroying
a vampire without first eliminating its spawn can
be a risky venture, as one might suddenly find
oneself facing a pack of full-strength vampires!

 

 

Punting Vampires and Cheir
Spawn

Fortified with the above knowledge, the vam-
pire-hunting player character can use this

 

   

information to minimize the danger in tracking
down and destroying these monstrous parasites.
The following methods may be helpful in fending
off vampire attacks or destroying them. Not all
techniques work on all vampires. The forthcoming
Denizens of Dread contains more information on
these creatures.

Allergens

The identification of any unique allergen
associated with a particular vampire is essential for
fending off the vampire and keeping it at bay.
While garlic seems to repel most vampires, not all
these creatures suffer from exposure to it. Some
vampires may possess an acute allergy to certain
herbs or the incense caused by burning certain
woods, such as cedar or rosewood. (See Unique
Allergens above for more examples of possible
allergens.) In order for these substances to be
effective, the hunter must keep them around him
at all times, either on his person (such as a string of
garlic worn as a necklace) or in his home or camp
(such as placing sprigs of a known herbal allergen
at all places of entry into a house or around the
perimeter of a campsite). While allergens do not
destroy a vampire, they can be useful in providing
time in which to plan an attack or in keeping a

 

 
