vampire’s victim relatively safe until the creature
can be destroyed.

ooden Stakes

Wooden stakes are useful in subduing a vam-
pire but are rarely lethal in and of themselves. Two
factors must be taken into consideration when
planning to stake a vampire.

First, some vampires are only affected by cer-
tain kinds of wood. Most wooden stakes are made
from ashwood — and these usually are efficacious
when properly placed —but not all vampires are
sensitive to this type of wood. Other vampires may
be affected by rosewood, yew, birch or some other
kind of wood. Often the type of wood to which the
vampire is susceptible depends on the circum-
stances of the monster's creation or some other
significant event in its personal history. One vam-
pire created near a copse of elm trees might be
vulnerable only to stakes made from elmwood
while another vampire who, in life, was a noted
bard might be particularly sensitive toa stake made
from rosewood, the wood used in his favorite in-
strument

Second, staking a vampire is not an easy pro-
cess. The vampire’s heart is a small target and
benefits from the exceptional strength in the
creature’s musculature. Van Richten’s Arsenal
provides specific details about staking a vampire.

  

Blessed Mleapons

Although most vampires may be struck only
with silver or magic weapons, a priest who blesses
a nonmagic weapon may temporarily endow that
weapon with the ability to penetrate a vampire’s
magical defenses. Such a blessed weapon, however,
rarely deals full damage but is limited to the total
damage conferred by the bless spell plus the wielder’s
Strength bonus. Other spells that create magic
weapons or confer special powers upon nonmagical
weapons can likewise counter the vampire’s immu-
nity to mundane weaponry.

 

 

Running Water

Whether or not running water can kill a vam-
pire is a question still discussed by vampire slayers.
Folktales insist that immersing a vampire causes it
to assume gaseous form or weakens it considerably.
Experience, however, demonstrates that while vam-
pires have difficulty crossing running water, the
water itself has less of an effect on them than most
hunters would like to believe. Hunters should

 

exercise caution when relying on running water to
confine or weaken their vampiric quarry.

Sunlight

By far, the most certain way of slaying most
vampires is through exposing them to sunlight,
either naturally or with spells that produce magical
sunlight. Each round a vampire is exposed to sun-
light, it takes damage. Fledgling vampires may be
killed by even slight exposure, while older vam-
pires must experience sustained exposure before
they are utterly slain. Vampires despise sunlight
and when they are exposed, they can do nothing
except attempt to seek shelter. They cannot use
their magical powers once exposed to the sun. This
exposure must be direct, however. A vampire may
stand in a room when the sun is shining as long as
it does not step directly into a beam of sun. As a
vampire grows older, moreover, it gains someslight
resistance to sunlight.

  

See Van Richten’s Arsenal for a more com-
plete description of methods, including specific
spells and techniques, used in hunting and slaying
vampires.

Ghosts

round the long, narrow hall, under the
fearful light that came from nowhere, but
was omnipresent, swept a rushing stream
of unspeakable horrors, dancing insanely,
gibberinghideously; the dead of forty years
— Ralph A. Cram, “In Kropfsberg Keep”
Whereas vampires are beings of selfish and
destructive greed, the lingering spirits of the de-
ceased ate typically creatures of deep and abiding
tragedy. Commonly known as ghosts, these spirits
remain trapped between worlds, held captive by
the emotional power of their death. This tragic
bearing can cause one to see ghosts as victims in
need of assistance, and sometimes this is indeed the
case. One should always be wary, however, for
many ghosts were the architects of their own doom,
and even those who were innocent in life may
harbor deep hatred and bitterness in death.

Ethereal Resonance

One of the most intriguing results of van
Richten’s research on ghosts is his theory of ethe-
real resonance, which explains how ghosts come to
exist. According to the theory, the emotions felt by
living creatures leave a psychic imprint on the
Ethereal Plane, which surrounds and pervades the

 

 
