 

 

material world. These psychic imprints are known
as ethereal resonance. This resonance is usually so
slight as to be almost nonexistent, but particularly
powerful or persistent emotions can generate ethe-
real resonance of a stronger, more lasting nature.
Ethereal resonance is essentially a shadow of the
Material Plane, cast on the Ethereal, which pro-
vides an ethereal image of a specific moment in
material time.

To illustrate, picture a house on the Material
Plane. The house is home to an average, content
family. No unusually charged emotions have oc-
curred within; thus, the house emits only the
slightest level of ethereal resonance. To travelers
on the Ethereal Plane, the house would be barely
detectable. They might get the sense that some-
thing was there but would be unable to perceive it
in any concrete way. The living inhabitants of the
home might be more easily detected, as they are the
strongest sources of emotion in the area, but even
they would be shadowy and intangible.

Now imagine that the family was murdered
within its home. The house has now been the site
of very strong emotions: the fear and grief of the
family and the rage and sadistic joy of the murderer.
The ethereal resonance of the area suddenly in-
creases dramatically. Now to ethereal travelers, the
house stands out in full relief. Its walls are solid and
opaque, and they can interact with it (such as
opening the door). When the travelers open the
door on the Ethereal Plane, nothing happens on
the Material. The door remains closed because the
travelers are not interacting with the actual, mate-
tial door. Instead, they are interacting with a “ghost”
of the door, an image of the way it appeared when
the murders occurred.

In game terms, ethereal resonance is divided
into five ranks:

  

Rank One is the lowest level or resonance.
Rank one areas or events are devoid of any emo-
tionally charged events. They may have been the
sites of powerfully emotional events in the past, but
if so they occurred so long ago that they have been
forgotten by the living. A person who suddenly
died from a heart attack would probably generate
only the first rank of resonance in an area. Minor
arguments and small celebrations are also Rank
one events.

Rank Two resonance occurs in areas where an
event of some emotional strength has occurred.
Events that create rank two resonance are usually
briefand involveasmall number of people, perhaps

 

only one. A brief but terrifying murder might be
sufficient to generate rank two resonance, as might
a sorrowful suicide. A joyful reunion of long-lost
family members might also reach rank two.

Rank Three resonance occurs in areas that
have been home to very high levels of emotion.
Usually the emotions of several people are required
to create rank three resonance, though very pow-
erful emotion from a single person might be
sufficient, particularly if that emotion was sus-
tained fora long period of time. A man tortured on
a rack for days before being killed might build
sufficient ethereal resonance to reach the third
rank, as might a spirited worship service.

Rank Four resonance is rare and requires
either strong emotion from a large number of
people ot maniacal emotion from a single person.
Events that create rank four resonance are almost
always tragic and gruesome. A ritual sacrifice or a
mass murder might generate fourth rank reso-
nance.

Rank Five resonance is almost unheard of and
requires that a great number of people experience
strong emotion or that maniacal emotion from a
single person be sustained fora long period of time.
Brutal genocide might result in rank five reso-
nance.

 

Ethereal resonance is not permanent. Just as
emotions create it, emotions are required to feed it,
and without these emotions, the resonance fades.
Returning to our example, our imaginary house has
been abandoned. No one goes there willfully, until
over the years, people begin to forget why no one
goes there. The emotional power of the house has
faded. The ethereal resonance of the house begins
to fade as well. On the Ethereal Plane, the house
begins to look increasingly hazy and indistinct. As
the years pass its walls start to lose their solidity and
become transparent and insubstantial. Eventually,
it might fade almost entirely. In game terms, ethe-
real resonance loses one rank each month in the
absence of living beings who remember the event
that spawned it, down to a minimum of rank one.

Living creatures can be imprinted on the Ethe-
real Plane just as objects can. As constant sources
of emotion, living creatures always radiate low
levels of ethereal resonance. Whenever an
individual’s emotions reach a charged peak, such as
moments of extreme anger, fear, joy or sorrow, a
lasting phantom of the individual is created on the
Ethereal Plane, composed entirely of ethereal reso-
nance. These phantoms are mindless images; they

 

s
