ee wetted ae sell er

~~

 

f

 

man

ee

are not ghosts, though they may resemble them.
The phantoms constantly reenact the event that
led to theircreation, without variation. Those with
the Ethereal Empathy feat can witness these re-
plays of past events. Phantoms fade over time just
as all ethereal resonance does.

Ghosts

Ghosts are the souls of deceased creatures,
trapped on the Ethereal Plane. According to van
Richten’s theory, the interaction between human
emotion and the ethereal can serve as a barrier in
the event of an emotionally charged death. The
ethereal resonance created by the event serves to
bind the soul of the dying to the Ethereal Plane and
prevent it from moving on. Ghosts are tormented
by the circumstances surrounding their death, for
they prevent the ghost from resting peacefully.
Whether van Richten’s theory is correct is impos-
sible to say with certainty, but itdoes fitall available
evidence.

 

Table 5-2: Ghost Rank Modifiers

 

er *

 

 

Like ethereal resonance, ghosts are divided
into five ranks. Rank one ghosts are the weakest,
products of sudden or unemotional deaths. Rank
five ghosts are the most powerful, resulting from
deaths or extreme emotion and great consequence.
Whenever a ghost is created, the rank of ethereal
resonance in the area immediately rises to match
the rank of the ghost. The ethereal resonance of an
area haunted by a ghost does not fade over time, for
the ghost itself serves as enough emotional fuel to
keep the resonance strong.

The emotional energy unleashed during a
ghost’s creation charges the ghost with power.
Higher ranked ghosts are therefore more powerful
than those of lower rank. A ghost’s rank is fixed by
the moment of its creation and cannot be changed
except by extremely unusual circumstances, such
as the intervention of the Dark Powers. The fol-
lowing table shows the modifications that should
be made to the Ghost template for a ghost of each
rank.

 

Rank Min Cha ChaMod — Free Manifest? Special Abil CR
One 6 +2 No 0-2 +1
Two 8 +4 Yes 1-3 +2
Three 10 +6 Yes 2-4 +3
Four 12 +8 Yes 3-5 +4
Five 14 +10 Yes 4-6 +5,

Rank: The ghost’s rank.

Min Cha: The minimum Charisma the base character must have had in life to become a ghost of this
rank. Base characters with a lower Charisma do not have sufficient force of personality to become a ghost
of this rank. Base characters with an equal or higher Charisma can become ghosts of this rank or any lower

rank.

Cha Mod: The modification made to the base character’s Charisma after becoming a ghost. This
modification does not count when determining whether the base character meets the minimum Charisma

requirement for a given Rank.

Free Manifest: Whether a ghost of this rank automatically receives the manifestation ability. Rank
one ghosts can have the manifestation ability only by selecting it as one of their special abilities. Higher
ranked ghosts automatically receive the manifestation ability, and it does not count toward their number
of special abilities. Rank one ghosts without the manifestation ability can interact with the Material Plane
only by using their other special abilities, such as telekinesis or figments. Rank one ghosts without any
special abilities are unable to affect the Material Plane and are forever cursed to be powerless observers.
Spells or abilities that can detect ghosts still reveal their presence, however.

Special Abilities: The number of special abilities the ghost can potentially have. The exact number
can be either selected or randomly determined by rolling 1d3, adding the ghost’s rank, and subtracting 2.

CR: Modification made to the base character's Challenge Rating.

 

*

ery

“esi”

 

 
