   

 
 
 

   

  
  

Che

Ghosts and Resonance

Ghosts and other ethereal creatures experi-
ence ethereal resonance as though it werea physical,
material object. Conversely, ghosts are incapable
of interacting with physical, material objects in the
absence of ethereal resonance.

A ghost passes through all material objects as
if they don’t exist. They can also pass through
ethereal resonance of arank lower than themselves
if they wish, though they can interact with such
objects normally if they choose. Ghosts are unable
to pass through ethereal resonance of equal or
greater rank than their own; to them, it is com-
pletely solid and opaque.

Nonghosts on the Ethereal Plane may or may
not be hindered by ethereal resonance, depending
on their Charisma and the rank of the ethereal
resonance. If the ethereal creatures have the mini-
mum Charisma for a ghost of that rank, they may
pass through the ethereal resonance, though they
can interact with it if they choose. If they do not
meet the minimum Charisma requirement, the
ethereal resonance is treated as a solid, physical
object.

   
  

t Five

— RUseinag

 

Special Abilities

 
 
 

Ghosts can select from the following special
abilities in addition to the ones listed in the Mon-
ster Manual. All saving throws are made against
DC (10 + 1/2 the ghost’s Hit Dice + ghost’s Cha-
risma modifier) unless otherwise noted.

‘Aura of Despair (Su): Those near the ghost are
afflicted with a deep apathy and melancholy that
makes action difficult. All those within (25 x
ghost’s rank) feet of the ghost must make a Will
save. Those who fail suffer a morale penalty, equal
to the ghost’s rank, to all attack rolls, skill checks
and saves. The negative modifier lasts until the
victim leaves the radius of this power. This particu-
lar ghost’s aura of despair cannot affect those who
make their saves for 24 hours.

Commanding Appearance (Su): The ghost can
conquer the wills of those who look upon it. This
ability is treated as a gaze attack with a range of 30
feet. Targets must make a Will save. Those who fail
suffer the effects of the dominate person spell, as if
cast by a sorcerer of level equal to the ghost’s rank
+ Hit Dice.

   

cin

cAI

—
