 

   

Command Undead (Su): The ghost can rebuke
or command undead as if it were a cleric of level
equal to its Hit Dice. Ghosts that can already
rebuke undead may add 4 to their effective level
when rebuking.

Dream Walk (Su): The ghost can enter the
dreams of the living once per night. The number of
living creatures the ghost can affect at once is equal
to the ghost’s rank. All those affected must be
within a (100 x ghost’s rank) foot radius of the
ghost. The ghost can send the targets either a
dream or a nightmare; all targets must receive the
same effect. If the ghost sends a dream, it can send
the targets a message as if they were the targets of
adream spell. If it sends a nightmare, all the targets
are affected as if a nightmare spell had been cast on
them.

Ebon Shroud (Su): The ghost can cast a dark-
ness spellat will. Ittakes effect as if cast by a sorcerer
of level equal to the ghost’s rank + Hit Dice.

Entrancing Appearance (Su): The ghost taps
into the fascination living creatures have with
death, and any who look at it risk falling victim to
it. This ability is treated as a gaze attack with a
range of 30 feet. Targets must make a Will save.
Those who fail are unable to take any action while
the ghost remains in view. Victims can make
subsequent Will saves to throw off the effects. The
number of rounds a victim must wait before making
another save is equal to the ghost’s rank.

Ghost Writing (Su): The ghost can cause words
to appear on any touched surface. The appearance
of the words is up to the ghost; they may take the
form of flowing script, haphazard scrawl or even
dripping blood. The words are entirely illusory and
can be seen only by those the ghost wishes. The
words can last a number of days equal to the ghost’s
rank, though the ghost can make them vanish
earlier if it wants. There is no limit to the amount
of ghost writing the ghost can have in existence at
one time.

Mind Games (Su): The ghost is able to create
illusions in the minds of the living. The ghost can
use this ability at will. The ability takes effect as one
of the following spells, dependent on the rank of
the ghost:

Rank One: silent image
Rank Two: minor image
Rank Three: major image
Rank Four: illusory wall
Rank Five: persistent image

 

 

Although the spells resemble figment effects,
they are actually phantasms. They occur only in
the minds of the targets. In all other respects, they
behave identically to the spell descriptions. A
ghost can choose to use a lower ranked spell if it
wishes. Rank five ghosts can create illusory walls,

 

for example. The spell takes effect as if cast by a
sorcerer of level equal to the ghost’s rank + Hit
Dice.

Paralyzing Touch (Su): The ghost’s touch deals
a bone-chilling cold that can paralyze its victims.
Those hit must make a Fortitude save. Those who
fail are paralyzed for a number of minutes equal to
2d6 x ghost’s rank. Dispel magic or asimilar spell lifts
the paralysis.

Phantasmal Killer (Su): The ghost can cast a
phantasmal killer spell a number of times a day equal
to its rank. The spell takes effect as if cast by a
sorcerer of level equal to the ghost’s rank + Hit
Dice.

Phantom Shift (Su): The ghost can make ethe-
real resonance visible and tangible to the living.
Every living creature within a 60-foot radius of the
ghost ceases to see or feel the Material Plane as itis,
but instead experiences the ethereal resonance of
the area. This can be disconcerting but is generally
not harmful. Rather, the shift serves to ease com-
munication and interaction between the ghost and
the living.

Unquiet Dead (Su): The ghost can cast the
animate dead spell a number of times a day equal to
itsrank. The spell takes effect as if cast by asorcerer
of level equal to the ghost’s rank + Hit Dice.

Advancement

The vast majority of ghosts are no longer able
to gain levels, as their existence is completely
focused on the circumstances surrounding their
death. Very rarely a ghost might have sufficient
determination and sense of self to continue to gain
class levels, but even then, opportunities for growth
are rare. Of all ghosts, only domain lords might
have both the drive and opportunity to continue to
gain levels.

Punting Ghosts

Combating or repelling a ghost takes many
forms, since each ghost has a different reason for
haunting a particular site. While Van Richten’s
Arsenal presents several techniques for locating
and destroying a ghost, some methods are offered
here for the intrepid ghost-hunting adventurer.

 
