 

 

Allergens

Many ghosts have one substance to which
they are particularly sensitive. Hunters must take
care to discover the particular allergen that fends
off a ghost. Usually these substances have some
connection to either the ghost’s life or the manner
of his death. A particular type of flower, the rope
used to hang the ghost’s corporeal body, a singular
aroma (such as the smell of sandalwood) or a
recurring sound (such as the sounding of a chime or
the baying of a hound dog) are examples of the
variety of allergens that repel some ghosts.

Touse an allergen effectively, hunters need to
confront the ghost with the substance as if it were
a holy symbol (see below). Merely possessing or
wearing the allergen does not, in most cases, pro-
duce the desired effect of warding off the phantom
In some cases, allergens may be used as barriers
spread along the perimeter of an area. When ar-
ranged in this fashion, the substance acts as a
hindrance to a ghost attempting entrance to an
area. In all cases, a hunter should conduct enough
research into the nature of an individual to dis-
cover not only its allergen, but the creature’s
response to it as well.

Roly Water

Holy water isan effective weapon against most
ghosts, causing damage to all but the oldest and
most powerful ghosts. To harm a ghost, a hunter
must actually splash the creature with the holy
water. A hurled vial passes harmlessly through the
ethereal body of the ghost, doing no damage. A vial
tossed in such a way as to shatter at the creature's
feet usually manages to catch the creature within
its splash radius, but this is a ris
often resulting in a waste of precious resources.

 

y action at best,

 

Table 5-3: Ghost Damage j
from Roly Mater 3
Rank Damage per Vial

One 1d10

Two 148

Three Wd

Four 14

Five =

Roly Symbols

A holy symbol in and of itself has no special
effect on ghosts. The mere act of presenting a holy
symbol does not keep a ghost away, regardless of
how forcefully it is used to confront the creature.
The turning power of a priest or a paladin, how-
ever, which usually requires the use of a holy
symbol, does prove effective. When used in turning
ghosts, a holy symbol focuses the faith of the
wielder, becoming a channel for divine power and
the positive energies so inimical to ghosts. Ina few
cases, however, particularly with ghosts who were
priests in life or who had some connection with a
religion or some strong feud with a particular belief
system, a holy symbol of that religion may serve as
an allergen. (See above.)

Spells and Curning

Many spells prove effective in either contain-
ing, repelling or harming ghosts. Van Richten’s
Arsenal provides a list of spell types that may be
useful (as well as spell categories that have little to
no effect on ghosts). Some specific spells are men-
tioned here.

ae
yi i ; _ ee
N

 

 
