Lovin setbrttatha

 

Resurrection See reincarnation
Searing light This spell functions normally.
Speak with dead Useful in gathering information.
Spell immunity

beforehand.
Spiritual weapon

Effective as protection from spell-like attacks by ghosts as long as the form or attack is known

The weapon created by this spell can affect incorporeal creatures
The power of faith embodied in this spell canharm or even destroy ghosts, particularly ghosts affected

Sunbeam

by sunlight.
Sunburst See sunbeam.
Trap the soul Effective in trapping any ghost but does not destroy it.
Undeath to death This spell functions normally.
Wall of force Ghosts cannot pass through a barrier of Force energy.
Wish

Special Weapons

Although most physical weapons do not harm
incorporeal spirits, some types of weapons are ef-
fective when used to fight ghosts. Weapons forged
from a suBstande injurious to-spirice are highly
effective against them. Silver weapons work well
against rank one and two spirits and occasionally
affect more powerful ghosts. Some ghosts, how-
evet, may require weapons made ofother materials,
such as mithral, gold, bronze or brass while a few
spirits may only be vulnerable to weapons created
from nonmetallic substances, such as oakwood,
jade or obsidian.

Enchanted or blessed weapons usually harm
spirits to a certain extent, though powerful ghosts
may require powerful enchantments. The best types
of weapons to use against spirits are those specifi-
cally constructed for use against a particular ghost.
For example, the ghost of a sea captain may be
vulnerable to a sword crafted from wood or metal
that has been soaked in seawater.

Communicating with the Undead

Sometimes ghosts require nothing more than
the ability to tell their story or divulge some secret
information they have been protecting. The spell
speak with dead can assist in providing a means of
communication between adventurers and the spir-
its they confront. Characters with feats that enable
them to communicate with ghosts can also provide
useful services to any ghost-hunting party, while
mediums may channel a ghost’s communications
through their own body. The Vistani and individu-
als possessing appropriate psionic powers may agree
to act as go betweens between player characters
and the spirits — for a price, of course.

re

 

May wish a ghost out of existence or uncover its weakness if correctly worded

tS

Liches

here is a power upon me which withholds,
And makes it my fatality to live,
If it be life to wear within myself

O This barrenness of Spirit, and to be
My own Soul’s sepulcher, for Ihave ceased

To justify my deeds unto myself —
The last infirmity of evil.
— George Gordon, Lord Byron, Manfred
The lich is potentially the most fearsome of
undead monsters. Imagine a wizard with immense
power and knowledge now gifted with a hardy
undead body, well suited to the channeling of
magical energies, and a potentially unlimited life
span in which to hone and perfect his art. Add to
that a mind driven enough to seek out the secrets
of lichdom, intelligent enough to grasp them and
twisted enough to enact them, and it should be easy
to understand why the lich is so feared. Van
Richten’s research revealed that there are even
more reasons to fear the lich than are commonly
known.

 

 

Cniversal Powers

All liches in Ravenloft possess the following
attributes, which should be added to the special
qualities granted by the lich template.

Lich Sight (Ex): Like most undead, liches have
darkvision to 60 feet. In addition to this, liches
cannot be blinded or impaired by any light no
matter how bright, even from a magical source.
Spells such as flare, for example, have no effect on
liches. Likewise, magical darkness does not limit
liches’ vision. In the eyes of a lich, it is as if neither
darkness nor light exists.

 

 
