    

 

Undead Control (Su): Liches are lords of the
undead. A lich may attempt to command any
undead that has Hit Dice up to half the lich’s Hit
Dice. The range for this power is astounding: up to
1,000 x the lich’s Hit Dice in feet. The lich must

 

  

have some way of perceiving the undead it is
attempting to command, but with the vast magical
knowledge liches possess, this is not difficult to
accomplish
Attemptingtocontrolan undead within range
isa free action, and the lich may make any number
ofsuch attempts in around. The targetsare allowed
a Will save against DC (10 + 1/2 the lich’s Hit Dice
+ lich’s Charisma modifier). Targets that save
successfully cannot be controlled this round, but

 

the lich may try again the next round. Targets that
fail the save can be commanded by the lich as if by
an evil cleric, save that the lich may issue orders as
a free action. The maximum total Hit Dice of
undead that can be controlled by the lich at one
time is equal to 3 x the lich’s Hit Dice.

Undead under a lich’s control have glowing
pinpoint eyes like the lich itself. This is not a mere
cosmetic modification, as the lich is able to see
through the eyes of any of the undead it controls.
This can be done regardless of the physical condi-
tion of the undead creature’s eyes. This lich can
likewise hear as if it were standing in the undead
creature’s place. The lich can exert itssenses through
only one of its controlled undead at a time, and
while itdoesso, itis unable to sense through its own
eyes or ears. However, the lich immediately knows
if it is being attacked, and it can switch between its
own senses and those of its controlled undead as a
free action

The lich instantly loses control of undead that
move beyond the range of this power, though there
are rumored ways for the lich to circumvent even
this limitation.

Salient Powers

In addition to their already impressive abili-
ties, liches often develop salient powers. Whether
a lich has salient powers, and how many it pos-
sesses, is related to its Intelligence

Int Powers
18 or less 0
17-20 1
21-22 2
23-24 3
25+ 4

Int: The lich’s intelligence.

 
