ee

 

Fei

Stats ater pal]

eee ele 1 2o.2 \.

 

Powers: The number of salient powers the
lich possesses.

The following list provides example of salient
powers a lich might possess.

Alternate Form (Su): The lich can change its
appearance at willas if it had cast the spell alter self.
The change lasts as long as the lich wills.

Animating Touch (Su): The lich can animate
corpses as skeletons or zombies with a touch. No
limit exists on the number of corpses that may be
animated in this way. The animated corpses are not
automatically under the lich’s control; it must use
its undead control ability on them as normal.

Augmented Spellcasting (Ex): The lich may
prepare double the number of Ist-, 2nd-, and 3rd-
level spells normally available to a caster of its
level. If the lich has more than one spellcasting
class, it may apply this power to only one of them.

Bone Command (Su): The lich can create
structures of bone at will. The use of this ability
requires that bone be present; the lich cannot
create bones from nothing. Thesize and strength of
the bone structures should be determined by the
DM and is dependent on the amount of bone
present.

A.common use of this power is the creation of
aswirling mass of bone splinters, similar to the blade
barrier spell. The radius of the bone barrier is
dependent on the amount of bone present, and it
does 1046 points of damage. In other respects, it is
identical to the blade barrier spell.

Chilling Wind (Su): Atwill, the lich can exhale
a 50-foot-long cone of icy wind that lasts for 1
round. The wind deals 1d10 points of cold damage
to those caught within, and the terrible howling
that accompanies requires the affected to make a
DC 15 Fear save. Any liquid within the cone
freezes.

Fast Healing (Ex): The lich constantly draws
on its phylactery to bolster its life force. The lich
heals 5 points of damage each round as long as its
phylactery is intact. The lich’s distance from its
phylactery has no effect on this ability.

Magic Mimicry (Su): The lich is able to draw
on and redirect the magical energies of other
spellcasters. Whenever a spell is cast in the lich’s
presence, the following round the lich may recast
the spell without expending any of its own pre-
pared spells. The spell is recast at the same level of
effect as it was originally cast. The lich does not
need to know the spell, but itcan mimic spells cast
by members of the same class only. A lich who is an

 

 

 

 

11th-level wizard cannot mimic acleric or sorcerer’s
spells, for example. Nor can the lich mimic the
spells of a caster who is a higher level than itself.
Only one spell can be mimicked each round, and
only in the round immediately following the origi-
nal casting.

Metal Immunity (Ex): Once per day, the lich
can render itself immune to metal. While in this
state, metal weapons cause the lich no damage, and
it can pass freely through metal doors or obstacles.
However, the lich must drop any metal items it had
on its person and cannot grasp any metal objects
whatsoever. Spells cast by the lich affect metal
normally, and the lich in turn is vulnerable to spell
effects emanating from metal objects. The lich can
maintain this state fora number of rounds equal to
its Hit Dice.

Poison Aura (Su): The lich’s mere presence is
so malevolent that nearby food and drink can
become poisoned by it. This power has a radius of
3 feet and takes effect only when the lich wills it.
The affected food or drink is treatedas ifithad been
laced with lich dust (see Poison in the D&D
Dungeon Master's Guide). The food itself appears
unchanged, but the use of a detect magic or a similar
spell detects a inagical aura. The poison becomes
inert in 24 hours.

 

Proxy Travel (Su): The lich may instantly take
the place of any undead it controls, regardless of
distance. This is similar in effect to the teleport
spell, save that there is no chance of error. The
targeted undead creature is instantly destroyed.
The lich cannot take the place of a controlled
undead that is in a different domain.

Skull Sery (Su): The lich can use any skull in a
100-mile radius as a focal point for its sense of sight
and hearing. The lich can see through the target
skull’s eye sockets and can hear as if it were in the
skull’s place. This ability cannot be used on skulls
that are attached toa spine, magically animated or
still enclosed in flesh.

Undead Mastery (Su): The lich can exert lim-
ited control over a greater number of undead and to
a greater range than normal. The lich can control
undead up to a distance of 1,000 x its Intelligence
in feet and can control a number of Hit Dice equal
to 10x its Intelligence. The lich does not have to
perceive the undead; all undead that are not cut-
rently controlled are affected.

The undead do not get a save, but those of 9
Hit Dice or greater are immune. All the lich can do
is summon them to itself or command them to
