 

 

attack a specific target or targets. More detailed
control is not possible. The lich cannot use its
undead control ability while it uses undead mas-
tery.

Vortex of Evil (Su): Once per week the lich is
able to send out a call to nearby beings of an evil
alignment. This call creates a feeling of greed and
ambition in the subjects and urges them to travel to
the lich’s location. Only subjects of an Intelligence
of 7 or higher are susceptible to the call. The call is
felt by all such beings within a radius equal to the
lich’s intelligence in miles. A successful Will save
against DC (10+ 1/2 the lich’s Hit Dice + the lich’s
Charisma modifier) enables a subject to ignore the
call. Once the called beings arrive, they are free
from any obligation or attraction to the lich and
must either be persuaded or forced to aid it.

   

   

Class Levels

Liches can continue to gain levels in
spellcasting classes after attaining lichdom; there
would be little appeal to the process otherwise. The
lich can learn new spells and gain experience as is
normal for its class. However, the long life span of
a lich often leads it to engage in careful and
meticulous plots that might take years to come to
fruition; this patience often leads a lich to gain
levels at a far slower rate than living spellcasters.

A lich’s focus is too limited for it to gain levels
in nonspelleasting classes.

Punting Liches

Hunting and destroying a lich is an arduous
and dangerous process best accomplished by a
strong group of powerful characters. While there
are no sure-fire techniques that ensure the destruc-
tion of a lich, a number of steps exist that can be
taken to maximize the likelihood of success.

Information Gathering

This phase of the process cannot be overem-
phasized. Liches are unique and rare individuals
who have personal histories that are usually replete
with information may provide invaluable clues to
their destruction.

Discovering what sorts of minions a lich con-
trols and preparing to do combat with them in
addition to fighting the lich allows characters to
come armed with an array of weapons, spells and
devices that can affect the various servitors of the

lich.

Just as importance is the ability to recognize
when various supernatural occurrences are the
result of a lich’s presence. Consulting experts such
asrepional loremasters, bardsand sagescan provide
much knowledge concerning local rumors and
legends concerning reputed liches. Thespell legend
lore provides invaluable information as well,

  

 

 

Some liches have and use their ability to
disguise themselves to move about in the world
outside the confines of their lair. Others may as-
sume various disguises in their lair to confuse
adventurers, playinga complicated game with them
in order to lure them into a trap from which they
cannot escape.

The use of scrying devices as well as the scry
spell can sometimes penetrate the lich’s lair and
provide information about the layout of the site
and any physically visual traps within it. Spells
such as clairvoyance and divination may also prove
useful unless the lich has protections againstscrying.

fighting the Lich

Ideally, a party can best fight a lich by finding
some way to lure it from its lair, either with news of
a powerful item or artifact that the lich itself must
acquire directly or by drawing so much attention to
themselves as enemies of the lich (usually by de-
stroying most of its servitors outside its lair) that
the lich feels it must go to the characters before
they do any further damage to its ability to keep
track of events through its servitors eyes.

While this has certain benefits, it also pre-
vents hunters from learning the location of a lich’s
phylactery, therefore lessening the chances of per-
manently destroying the lich. Further, unless the
hunters already know the location of the lich’s lair,
they cannot discover it without a great deal of
effort if the lich is defeated or retreats to safety.

Most characters in pursuit of a lich end up
bearding the lich in its lair. If they have been
successful in their reconnaissance efforts, a well-
prepared party can minimize beforehand their
chances of being surprised. While the lich may
have some traps prepared and guardians in place
that the hunters do not know about, the characters’
information gathering may reveal more of the lair’s
dangers than the lich would like.

In general, the most effective way to defeat a
lich — and the only way to destroy one perma-
nently—is by locating and destroying its phylactery.
Most liches tend to keep their phylactery close by
their persons, i.e., within their lair.
