 

 

 

The best time to re a lich’s phylactery is
just after a lich’s body is destroyed. When this
happens, the lich’s spirit takes refuge inside the
phylactery to await another body for it to inhabit.
Hunters can take advantage of this by locating and
destroying the phylactery with the lich still inside,
using all the magical and divine means at their
disposal to accomplish the task.

Spells that are useful in combating a lich or
destroying its phylactery include ones that can
counter magic, locate and dispel magical effects
and destroy magic items. Clerical spells that aug-
ment the characters’ ability to damage undead
creatures or that give support and healing to the
hunters themselves are also vital.

Che Aftermath

Should a party of hunters be so fortunate as to
destroy a lich and its phylactery, they may find
themselves in the possession of the lich’s consider-
able cache of magic items. Atthis point, adventurers
should take care that these items do not carry the
taint of their evil masterand that the lichis, in fact,
permanently destroyed. Otherwise, the lich may
s part of its hoard.

 

track down anyone who pos

Finally, the lich’s lair and the lands nearby
should be purified of the taint caused by the long
years of the lich’s habitation. Otherwise, the land
becomes a sinkhole of evil and attracts other evil
creatures.

Lycanthropes

nd before the final blank overtook his dying
eyes, he saw that She gave place to It; he
saw more, that Life gave place to Death—
causelessly, incomprehensibly.

 

 

 

 

 

— Clemence Housman, “The

Were-Wolf”

The dread disease lycanthropy may be the
most feared malady in the Land of Mists. It un-
leashes those parts of us that we strive so persistently
to suppress: the dark, the primitive, the feral, the
enraged. Worst of all, its presence lies submerged,
hidden so that no one might suspect the ferocity of
the animal within. Even the lycanthrope himself
might be ignorant of the beast he becomes when
the moon is full.

Natural Lycanthropes

Natural lycanthropes, also known as true
lycanthropes, are born with the innate ability to
assume the form of an animal and a hybrid beast.
The nature of this power isa mystery, but it appears
to be an inherited condition. One is either born a
natural lycanthrope, or one is not; a natural lycan-
thrope cannot be cured of the condition, nor can
one contract natural lycanthropy. Natural
lycanthropes can deal lycanthropy on others, but
this is always the afflicted variety of lycanthropy,
not true lycanthropy.

As lycanthropy is an inherent facet of their
existence, natural lycanthropes are able to com-
pletely control their transformations. They may
transform whenever they wish, and only unusual
circumstances can force them to change if they do
not want to.

All natural lycanthropes are able to assume
two forms in addition to their natural human form.
The first of these forms is that of an animal. The
lycanthrope always has the same appearance in its
animal form. The animal form isusually larger than
the average member of its species, but not abnor-
mally so. Some lycanthropes, however, have dire
animals as their animal form. The natural lycan-
thrope in animal form is in complete control of its
