 
 
      

facultiesand can understand humanspeech, though
it cannot speak itself.

Narillvcaniropercreae ecb cestmnen
hybrid form, a hideous cross between their human
and/aniinal fooms.The hybridiioracis bipedaliand
jnnineattelttaetoaes I nastts wkoulathiapacina le
and manipulate objects and can speak. Its head
closély resembles the animal forms andthe body is
usually covered with fur (or scales or feathers, as
appropriate). The hybrid form is usually powerfully
built and often possesses sharp claws that can
inflict serious wounds. As with the animal form,
the natural lycanthrope retains full control of its
achcneinihybrd tent

Afflicted Lycantbropes

Afflicted lycanthropesare those who have had
the lycanthropic condition thrust upon them. Those
who are injured by a lycanthrope but survive may
contract lycanthropy, or one might be cursed to
become a lycanthrope. Afflicted lycanthropy is
like a disease that can be passed on to others or,
with difficulty, cured. It is not a common disease,
however, and paladin’s disease immunity confers
him no guaranteed resistance against afflicted ly-
canthropy. Likewise, attempts to use the Heal skill
on afflicted lycanthropy symptoms usually fail;
while it might be in the healer’s power to ease the
pain a lycanthrope feels, she won’t be abating the
lycanthrope’s shape changing.

Unlike natural lycanthropes, afflicted
lycanthropes have no control over their changes.
They cannot initiate a change of their own will.
Instead, their change is triggered by an event
outside their control. The most common trigger is
the full moon, but other possible triggers exist.
Afflicted lycanthropes can assume only a single
alternate form. That form may be either the animal
form or the hybrid form. Afflicted lycanthropes of
the same bloodline tend to have the same alternate
form. For example, a victim infected by a hybrid
afflicted werewolf likely assumes a hybrid form
itself when it changes. The alternate form is deter-
mined at the time of infection and never changes.

‘Afflictedlycanthropesbecomeanimalisticand
prone to rage in their alternate form. They attack
innocents without remorse, often targeting loved
ones. The afflicted lycanthrope usually has no
memory of actions taken while changed

— -_— ae

gon

. ah sé aie
os a ee Sess a ee SON

 

 

. rte) eres

 
   

Lycantbropes in Ravenloft

The following changes should be made to the
Lycanthrope template for Ravenloft. These rules
supersede those presented in the Monster Manual

Curse of Lycanthropy: The Fortitude save to
resist lycanthropy increases to DC 18 (lycanthropy
is a more virulent infection in Ravenloft).

Alternate Form: Natural lycanthropes can
assume an animal form and a bipedal hybrid form.

Afflicted lycanthropes assume only one of the
two forms. For wereboars, hybrid and animal form
stats are identical. For werebears, hybrids havea +1
AC bonus (size) anda +1 melee bonus for claw and
bite attacks.

Those who witness a lycanthrope changing
forms must make a DC 15 Horror save.

Damage Reduction: Some lycanthropes have
variants of the weakest form of damage reduction,
with another special material replacing silver. Usu-
ally a specific material is tied to a specific animal
type, but unique individuals are not unknown. The
table below suggests some variant damage reduc-
tions for the lycanthrope templates listed in the

Monster Manual.

Type Damage Reduction
Werebear 15/cold iron
Wereboar 15/oakwood
Weretiger 15/obsidian

Inaddition to the special qualities given in the
Monster Manual, lycanthropes in Ravenloft have
the following:

Chemical Bane (Ex): Lycanthropes, with the
exception of wererats, are vulnerable to a particu-
larchemical or herbal substance, asindicated below.
Each acts as a poison for its associated phenotype
— ingested, DC 20 Fortitude, initial 1d6 Con,
secondary 2d6 Con.

 

Type Chemical Bane
Werebear Belladonna
Wereboar Camphor
Weretiger Ginseng
Werewolf Wolfsbane

The Hunger (Ex): A lycanthrope must eat a
cettain amount of raw meat each day, depending on
the size category of the lycanthrope’s animal form.

Size Raw Meat Required Daily
Tiny 1b.

Small 5 lb.

Medium 25 lb.

Large 50 bb.

Huge 7b.

 
