      

If the lycanthrope does not consume this
amount, it begins starving in three days, as de-
scribed in the Environment section of the D&D
Dungeon Master's Guide. A starving lycanthrope
must make a Constitution check each day (DC 10,
+1 foreach previous check) orsustain 16 points of
nonlethal damage. Cooked meat eaten is worth
only half as much toward the daily requirement.

Alignment: Lycanthropes’ moral alignmentis
always evil, though their ethical alignment may
vary. The alignments listed in the table below
replace those in the Monster Manual.

Type Alignment

Werebear Usuially neutral evil
Wereboar Usually chaotic evil
Wererat Usually lawful evil
Weretiger Usually neutral evil
Werewolf Usually chaotic evil

Lycantbropy as an Affliction

Not all afflicted lycanthropes involuntarily
change shape upon the rise of the full moon:
Variant trigger events can include other celestial
or atmospheric occurrences, such as sunsets, com-
ets or storms; experiencing a particular emotion,
such as rage or passion; or exposure to a certain
place, object or sensation, such as being in a forest,
hearing music or seeing blood. The exact trigger
event varies with the individual lycanthrope, but

 

lycanthropes of the same bloodline tend to have
identical triggers. The afflicted character must
make a Control Shape check as described in the
Monster Manual when exposed to the trigger event.

Lycanthropy is more insidious in Ravenloft.
Unless pain is their trigger event, afflicted
lycanthropes normally do not need to make a
Control Shape check when they take damage. Ifan
afflicted character spends skill points on Control
Shape ranks, however, she unlocks the beast within
and must thereafter make Control Shape checks
when taking damage, as described in the Monster
Manual

Curing Lycanthropy: A character afflicted
with lycanthropy cannot shake off the curse by
eating belladonna. To cure a character afflicted
with lycanthropy, the natural lycanthrope that
infected the character first must be destroyed. Ifthe
character was infected by another afflicted lyean-
thrope, the natural lycanthrope that infected it
must be destroyed, and so on. Regardless, the
natural lycanthrope that originally started the
bloodline must be dead before the afflicted charac-

 

 
