eel — — ~~ > ter,

 
 
     
 

ter can be cured. Once this is accomplished, the
spells atonement, remove disease and remove curse
must be cast on the character while he is in animal

 

form. The character must then succeed at a DC 20
Will save to break the curse. There is only one
chance ata cure in Ravenloft. If the character fails
this Will save, he carries the affliction to his grave.

Spreading Lycanthropy: In Ravenloft, pass-
ing on the curse of lycanthropy is not just the
province of natural lycanthropes. If a person sur-
vives an injury from an afflicted lycanthrope, they,
too, might contract lycanthropy just as if they were
injured by a natural lycanthrope. Afflicted
lycanthropes, however, cannot control their “prog-

eny.

Galient Powers

Certain rare lycanthropes have powers be-
yond those common to their phenotype. Natural
lycanthropes are most likely to have such powers,
but they occasionally pass them to their afflicted
progeny. It israre for any lycanthrope to have more
than one of these powers, and it is almost unheard
of for one to have more than three.

Lycanthropes with salient powers can select
them from the following list:

Animal Command (Su): The lycanthrope has
the ability to rebuke or command animals of its
animal form just as an evil cleric can rebuke or
command undead. This ability takes effect as if the
lycanthrope were a 12th-level cleric.

Energy Resistance (Ex): The lycanthrope has
resistance 20 toa particular form of energy while in
its animal or hybrid form. Fire and cold are the most
common resistances. Werebears are particularly
likely to have cold resistance.

Fast Healing (Ex): The lycanthrope recovers
from wounds incredibly quickly. While in animal
or hybrid form it has fast healing of 5. This ability
can be taken a second time, in which case the
lycanthrope also gains fast heal 5 in humanoid
form.

Frightful Howl (Su): This is identical to the
frightful moan ability described under the Ghost
template in the Monster Manual, save that the
lycanthrope unleashes a low, mournful howl rather
than a moan. The lycanthrope can use this ability
only while in hybrid or animal form. Werewolves
are most likely to have this power.

Jump (Ex): The lycanthrope can leap great
distances while in animal or hybrid form. While in
these forms it is always treated as if under the effect

SO Sees ee a eat eee o
Li et — = : i

 

 

 

    
 

of a jump spell. Weretigers are most likely to have
this power.

Pass without Trace (Su): While in animal or
hybrid form, the lycanthrope leaves no tracks be-
hind, as if it were under the effects of the pass
without trace spell.

Progeny Control (Su): Only natural
lycanthropes can have this power. When the natu-
ral lycanthrope afflicts another creature with
lycanthropy, the afflicted lycanthrope is under the
command of the progenitor, as if the progeny were
an animal affected by lycanthropic empathy (see
the Monster Manual). This control lasts only while
the progeny isin animal or hybrid form. Taking this
ability a second time enables the lycanthrope to
trigger its progeny’s form changes at will. The
progeny can make a Control Shape check to resist
the change, but the progenitor can try again the
next round.

Silence (Su): While in animal or hybrid form,
the lycanthrope is always taking 10 on Move Si-
lently checks, unless it chooses not to.

Spell Resistance (Ex): The lycanthrope has
spell resistance 20. This resistance applies to all its
forms.

 

Spider Climb (Su): Only lycanthropes with a
hybrid form can have this power. While in hybrid
form, the lycanthrope is able to climb sheer sur-
faces as if under the effects of a spider climb spell.
This power is most commonly found in wererats.

Dunting Lycantbropes

Those who hunt lycanthropes, whether to
cure an afflicted comrade by destroying the crea-
ture that infected him or to destroy a monster that
has been plaguing a village, face a difficult task.
The following steps, while not guaranteed to result
in a successful hunt, can maximize the chances of
locating and destroying the targeted lycanthrope.

 

Recognizing the Lycanthrope

The hybrid form ofa lycanthrope is the easiest
to identify, but is also the form least likely to be
encountered except in the context of violence.
Often, however, it is more important to recognize
a lycanthrope before it assumes its hybrid shape.

Distinguishing a lycanthrope from a normal
animal of its type is usually difficult, if not impos-
sible, for anyone not intimately familiar with the
natural habitats of the animal type. Rangers and
druids prove particularly useful because of their
knowledge of the wilderness; they can often iden-

 
