 

   

tify animals that are atypical of their type, either
larger or bearing distinguishing marks. Wilderness-
savvy characters are more likely to notice when
local animals start acting strangely or if a new
animal has arrived on the scene.

Uncovering a lycanthrope in human form is
often vital to a successful hunt. In human form,
lycanthropes may not be the most dangerous in
battle, but they are insidious as spies who can foil
a hunter’s careful plans by overhearing them and
taking steps to evade pursuit.

Most lycanthropes bear visible signs of their
condition when in human form. These marks in-
clude elongated forefingers, eyebrows that form a
single line and hair-growth in the palms of the
hand. The human form of natural lycanthropes
usually displays some aspects of their animal form:
wererats possess sharp, beady eyes; werewolves
move with a feral grace and may have eyes that are
nearly colorless.

Afflicted lycanthropes may bear some or all
the above marks, but they do tend to manifest
certain attitudinal changes after their affliction.
Neighbors can usually tell if “the youngest
Moorhouse girl” has been acting secretive or has
taken to spending a lot of time outside in the
evenings. Some hunters, when they think they
have identified an individual asa lycanthrope, find
some means to gain entry into the suspect’s home,
either through stealth or deception. In this fashion,
hunters may discover some physical connection
between the lycanthrope and its victims.

Natural lycanthropes usually harbor some evil
scheme in their hearts; they either serve some more
powerful evil master or else they have ambitions to
increase their kind, terrorize the countryside, gain
a power base or start a cult of worshipers.

Afflicted lycanthropes, on the other hand,
frequently do not realize what they have become
or, if they do, hate the beast that lives within them.
They are both the most and least likely to manifest
changesin behavior. Ignorant afflicted lycanthropes
usually act no different after their change than
before. They tend not to remember anything that
happens to them when they shift forms and ram-
page through the countryside. Afflicted
lycanthropes who realize what has happened to
them often take pains to make certain that no one
discovers them. Such individuals may begin wear-
ing gloves at all times, to mask the marks of the
lycanthrope on their hands and fingers. They may
take precautions to keep out prying eyes and be-

 

 

have in a guilty fashion. They are the easiest to
identify and the least deserving of death for what
has happened to them.

Unfortunately, the tracks of a lycanthrope all
too often consist of a trail of mangled and bloody
corpses, the victims of the creature’s mindless rav-
ages. Many lycanthropes, particularly afflicted ones,
do not stray far from their native territory or
village, so the individuals they attack are often the
ones most closely known to them — family mem-
bers, friends and neighbors, plus the occasional
elderly person or wandering child. A study of the
victims, gory though that may be, can sometimes
produce clues as to the identity of the lycanthrope.

Che Lycanthrope’s Lair

Afflicted lycanthropes rarely maintain lair as
such. These unfortunates tend to attempt to keep
up their daily routine, pretending (to themselves or
to others) that nothing is wrong. As such, while
they may guard themselves with minor protections
to avoid being surprised, they rarely construct
elaborate safeguards in the forms of traps and
guardians.

Natural lycanthropes, on the other hand, keep
their lairs as secret as possible, fortifying their
havens with numerous traps for the unwary and
often populating it with servitors — creatures
under their domination and sometimes other
lycanthropes. These lairs should be scouted out,
usingsome of the same techniques described above,
with as much care as a canny hunter would give to
exploring the lair of a vampire or lich.

While most afflicted lycanthropes keep only
one lair, usually their place of residence before they
were infected, natural lycanthropes may have not
only a wilderness retreat but also a place within a
city or village where they lead an apparently nor-
mal life among normal people. It is important to
discover all a lycanthrope’s lairs in the event the
creature escapes the first attempt to capture or
destroy it.

Rill or Cure?

Unlike many other monsters, lycanthropes
present a true dilemma for the hunter. While
natural lycanthropes have no possibility of re-
demption, since their innate tendencies favor evil
deeds, afflicted lycanthropes have the possibility of
being cured or having their curse removed. While
under the effects of their killing lust, afflicted
lycanthropes are just as dangerous and deadly as
