 

    

ZIT

SSS

VE

Sv

SOS

RS

COLT

 

natural ones, but when they return to themselves,
many loathe what they have become and seek
some way to retrieve their lost lives

Hunters must decide, particularly when faced
with an afflicted lycanthrope, whether to kill the
beast or attempt to capture it and, if possible, rid it
of its infection or curse. If the object is to take the
lycanthrope alive, then the best way to do so is
through a trap, particularly if the creature is in
animal form. Spells that affect monsters tend to be
useful as well. Van Richten’s Arsenal provides a
number of spells useful in either capturing and

 

resi

 

aining the lycanthrope or suppressing its symp-
toms. If the hunting party decides that the beast’s
destruction is their only recourse, they should
carefully consider which weapons and spells are
most effective in their pursuit.

Many lycanthropes are vulnerable to attacks
by silver weapons, particularly those that take the
form of wolves. Other types of lycanthropes have
other vulnerabilities, which must be discovered
through research and investigation. Weaponsmade
from these allergens tend to deal damage that
prevents the beast from healing itself through
regeneration. Holy weapons and magical weapons
are usually effective as well. If a hunter discovers
the lycanthrope’s particular chemical or herbal

  

 

 

 

allergen (such as wolfsbane, mistletoe or rowan-
berries, to name a few) that substance can be used
as a poison or soporific to subdue the beast for
either the capture or the kill. Holy water usually
does little to no damage unless it is, itself, an
allergen. Lycanthropes cannot be turned or ban-
ished by a priest.

Constructs

athanael was stupefied, — he had seen
only too distinctly that in Olimpia’s pallid
f Pj} waxed face there were no eyes, merely
= black holes in their stead; she was an
inanimate puppet
— Ernst T. W. Hoffman, “The Sand-Man”
Pride is perhaps the most deadly of sins, and it
is of pride that the artificial monstrosities known as
constructs are born. When mortal man takes it
upon himself to create life, he tampers with forces
that would best be left undisturbed. Unfortunately,
some refuse to recognize the wisdom of remaining
within the natural order, and the result is a twisted
mockery of life.

 

 

 

 

 

In most lands, the animation of a construct
requires the use of great magic and expensive
materials. Ravenloft does not hold such restric-
tions. Anyone with the mad desire to bring life to
the inanimate can potentially doso, and the results
are always tragic.

Che Creation

A construct created not through magic but
through the dark desires of its creator is known as
a golem of obsession, or a dread golem. Dread
golems are created when an individual is obsessed
with giving life to the inanimate. The possible
reasons for such an obsession are numerous. The
cteator may see the creation of life as a noble
scientific experiment, an artistic project or the
opportunity to restore life to a lost loved one. The
reasons are ultimately immaterial; what matters is
the obsession itself. That obsession is the seed that
ultimately gives the dread golem “life.” The assem-
bly of the golem’s body, whether it is the sculpting
ofa statue or the sewing together of corpses, serves
to imprint the construct with the creator's desires.
The mechanism of animation, whether it is a
fervent prayer or a channeled bolt of lightning,
serves to focus the creator’s anticipation to a cre-
scendo. It is the emotion of this moment, when the
creatot is watching to discover whether his life’s
ambition has resulted in feverishly desired s

 

 

 

  

 

ccess
