  

or desperately feared failure, which truly serves to
animate the construct. From the dark desires of his
creator, the dread golem is born,

The Dread Golem

“Dread Golem” isa template that can be added
to any construct, hereafter referred to as the “base
construct.” The template must be added at the
moment of creation, under the circumstances de-
scribed above. An existing construct cannot later
become a dread golem, at least as far as is known.

Hit Dice: As base construct.

Speed: As base construct. A dread golem is
able to run even if the base construct cannot.

AC: The base construct’s natural armor im-
proves by +4.

Attacks and Damage: As base construct, and
gains a slam attack if one is not already possessed.
Use the table provided with the Vampire template
to determine the damage rating of the slam attack.

Special Attacks: As base construct.

 

Special Qualities: As base construct, plus the
following.

Telepathic Bond (Ex): The golem has a con-
stant telepathic bond with its creator. The golem is
constantly aware of all of its creator’s thoughts,
hopes, fears, dreams and desires. It can see through
its creator's eyes and always knows its creator's
location, It can also communicate telepathically to
its creator. This ability has unlimited range and
cannot be blocked by any means magical or other-
wise.

The golem’s deep bond with its creator invari-
ably leads to hatred and contempt. The golem
acutely senses any anger or disappointment the
creator feels toward the golem andknowsitscreator’s
darkest and most humiliating secrets. No creator
can maintain the loyalty of the golem in the face of
this intrusive intimacy.

This is a one-way power only. The creator has
no such bond with her creation

Saves: As base construct

Abili +4 Dexterity, +4 Charisma. The
construct also gains an Intelligence score of 9 if it
did notalready have an Intelligence score. A dread
golem may have higher or lower Intelligence, Wis-
dom, or Charisma scores at the DM’s discretion,
but none has any of these abilities at a score lower
than 3.

Skills: As b

Feats: As base construct.

 

 

 

construct.

  

 
