rel ~~ /-_

Environment: As base construct.
Organization: Solitary.
Challenge Rating: +1.
Treasure: None.

Alignment: Usually chaotic evil.
Advancement: As base construct.

Salient Powers

In addition to the above modifications, dread
golems frequently have salient powers. These pow-
ers result from the materials used in the golem’s
construction or area twisted mockery of the creator's
goals and fears. Roll 1d4—1 to randomly determine
how many salient powers the golem possesses, or
choose an appropriate number.

Constrict (Ex): The golem is able to crush or
strangle its enemies. The golem gains the constrict
ability.

Contagious Touch (Sp): The golem can cast a
contagion spell at will. The golem always deals the
same disease with this power.

 

 

Energy Drain (Su): Any living creature hit by
the golem’s slam attack suffers one negative level.

Frightful Presence (Su): The golem has the
frightful presence ability, identical to the vampire
salient power described above. Common ways for
golems to trigger this power are by moaning, gib-
bering or even tearing at their own flesh.

Heightened Scent (Ex): This power is most
frequently possessed by flesh golems that were
constructed with the sensory organs of an animal.
The golem gains the Scent feat.

Improved Grab (Ex): The golem gains the
improved grab ability. It must hit with its slam
attack to use this ability.

Jump (Ex): The golem is capable of truly
astounding leaps. It is treated as if always under the
effect of a jump spell.

Laugh of Enfeeblement (Su): At will, the golem
can unleash a booming, derisive laugh that affects
all living creatures within 30 feet as if they had
been hit by a ray of enfeeblement cast by a 1Oth-level
sorcerer. Creatures that cannot hear the laugh are
unaffected.

 

Rage (Ex): Once per day the golem can enter
arageas if it were a 20th-level barbarian. Itdoes not
have a Constitution score, so it does not gain extra
hit points, but all other bonuses and penalties
apply.

Regeneration (Ex): The dread golem gains re-
generation 5. Two relatively common varieties of

     

 

damage must be selected that deal normal damage
to the golem. Dread flesh golems, for example, are
frequently unable to regenerate fire or acid dam-
age. The dread golem cannot regrow lost body
parts, but it can reattach severed body parts in-
stantly by holding them against the stump.

Spider Climb (Ex): The golem can cling to
surfaces as though under the effects of the spider
climb spell.

Stench of Decay (Su): The golem constantly
exudes a foul stench in a 20-foot radius that is
identical in effect to the stinking cloud spell.

Trample (Ex): The golem gains the trample
ability.

Zeitgebers

Almost all dread golems suffer from one or
more zeitgebers, which are involuntary responses
triggered by certain sights, sounds or experiences.
Like the golem’s salient powers, the zeitgebers
often mock the creator's goals by rendering the
golem unable to act as desired in given situations.

The potential triggers and effects of zeitgebers
are limitless. The sight of fire might cause a particu-
lar golem to cower in fear or stare transfixed at the
flames. A song or style of music might cause an-
other golem to dance clumsily or sing croakingly.
Another golem might start howling uncontrolla-
blywhen the full moon rises. The effect of zeitgebers
in game terms are up to the DM, but they should
serve as a tool for clever hunters to use against the
beasts.

Punting Constructs

Golems are powerful creatures and hunting
them requires much patience, skill and dedication,
as well as considerable research and careful plan-
ning. Several factors must be considered when
setting out to pursue a golem.

hbo Created It?

Golems are made, not born. Discovering the
creator ofa golem can sometimes provide informa-
tion necessary to its destruction. Since each golem
has both a trigger and a zeitgeber, finding out the
nature of each stimulus or vulnerability can mean
the difference between success and failure in the
hunt.

Golems still under the control of their creator
most often serve as guardians, and hunters may
encounter them as obstacles en route to defeating
an evil wizard or a mad alchemist. Free-willed

  

 

 

 
