  

-

   

     

golems may rampage across the countryside or may,
in some cases, attempt to create for themselves a
life of their own, mimicking the real life they come
so close to and so ardently crave.

Signs of a Golem

Often, the hunt for a golem does not begin as
such. A party of adventurers may be drawn into the
investigation of a string of inexplicable and seem-
ingly random murders. Querying the townsfolk
may lead to rumors of a reclusive wizard or noble-
man who lives in the castle on the hill and is said
to conduct weird experiments of an unknown
nature. Tales such as this may bring adventurers to
the conclusion that the murderer is no less than a
construct.

Sometimes the creator himself may leave notes
and documents touting his creation. If a party of
heroes discovers these writings in the course of
other adventures, they may wish to pursue the
possibility that a golem may be loose in the realm.
Evidence of massive physical destruction, such as
uprooted trees, destroyed buildings and great holes
in the earth may lend credence to the theory that
a golem is nearby.

xX ¥
}
4 Table 5—5: Spells and Cheir Effects on Constructs
Spell Name Effect
~‘ Acid Fog This spell may slow down a golem by obscuringits vision. If acid harms the golem’s physical component,
‘ it takes damage normally from the acid vapors.
3 Animate dead Even flesh golems are unaffected by this spell.
z Animate object Apriest or bard casting this spell may sometimes gain partial control over the construct
q Charm spells These spells have no effect on constructs.
> Contagion Constructs are immune to diseases.
&\ Detect magic Most constructs do not register as magical creatures for purposes of this spell
5 Dispel magic This spell affects some golems but not others
8 Earthquake Agolemwithin the area of effect may be trapped or damaged by the physical effects of the earthquake.
S Energy drain This spell not only does not harm constructs; it gives them additional strength, adding | HD
s permanently to the creature.
j ESP This spell is ineffective on constructs
< Evard’s black tentacles This spell can affect constructs since it does not provide for saving throws or spell resistance.
< Iksion/phantasmspells These spells have no effect on constructs, with the exception of spells that confer invisibility on the
§ caster (see below).
d Invisibility spells. Constructs do not seem to be able to see invisible persons or objects.
f Magic circle against evil This spell offers some protection from evil constructs but does not keep them entirely at bay.
x Melf’s acid arrow __ Constructs susceptible to acid damage can be harmed.
é Polymorph spells These spells do not affect golems, due to their immunity to spells that allow saving throws.
: Protection from evil See magic circle against evil, above
Rusting grasp This spell is effective against iron golems.
Solid Fog This spell can impede or slow a golem’s movement.
Stone to flesh This spell can change a stone golem to a flesh golem and vice versa.

a Nae wares whys
hy, Ve eee he ealiggua re

 
 
