~~ —_

  

Preparing for the Hunt
Once information has been gathered, the hunt-
ers should take stock of their resources. Magic
weapons and spellcasters are essential to the defeat
of a golem, and redundancy is never a bad idea
since the casualty level among the hunters may be
as high as 50%. If the hunters know both the
golem’s trigger and zeitgeber, attempts may be
made to gather the means to play on the creature’s
vulnerabilities. Ifa golem is fascinated to the point
of paralysis by fire, a torch with continual flame cast
upon it or the timely use of a fire-based spell might
prove useful at distracting the creature.

The following spells may prove useful in the
pursuit of a construct. Although golems tend to be
immune to most magic, some spells may affect the
creature or its surroundings. Some spells that func-
tion differently or do not function at all are also
listed. In general, the most useful spells are those
that bolster the hunters’ abilities, give them addi-
tional protection or affect the golem’senvironment.
Van Richten’s Arsenal gives additional informa-
tion on spells effective against constructs.

Che Ancient Dead

he form was lifeless and inert, but it seemed
to Smith as he gazed that there still lingered
a lurid spark of vitality, some faint sign of
6 consciousness in the little eyes that lurked
in depths of the hollow sockets
— Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, “Lot No. 249”
The undead monsters van Richten dubbed the
ancient dead are more widely recognized as mum-
mies, but a shambling, bandaged monstrosity is
only one of the appearances these fearsome crea-
tures might take. Any culture that preserves the
bodies and venerates the memories of the deceased
might unknowingly harbor the ancient dead in its
burial grounds, and these creatures do not kindly
suffer the intrusions of the living.

Ranks

Like ghosts, the ancient dead are separated
into ranks. The higher a mummy's rank, the more
powerful it is. A mummy’s rank is roughly deter-
mined by how powerful the mummy was in life,
how venerated it was in life and after death, and
how much care and expense went into its preserva-
tion and burial. Rank one mummies were usually
servants mummified with their master, while rank
five mummies were usually rulers of entire nations.

 

 

:

 

“Ancient Dead” is a template that can be
applied to any living creature (referred to hereafter
asthe “base character”). The creature’s type changes
to “undead.” The ancient retains all the statistics of
the base character except where noted.

Hit Dice: Increase to d12.

Speed: See the table below.

AC: The base creature receives a bonus to its
natural armor class. The size of the bonus is determined
by the mummy's rank and is shown in the table below.

Attacks and Damage: Retains all the base
creature's attacks and gains a slam attack if it didn’t
already have one. Use the table provided with the
Vampire template in the Monster Manual to deter-
mine the damage rating of this slam attack.

Special Attacks: As base character, plus the
followin,

Damage Reduction (Ex): The ancient receives
damage reduction at the value given on Table 5—6
below.

Disease (Su): All ancient dead deal some vari-
ety of disease with their slam attack, though the
disease dealt varies from creature to creature. Se-
lect a disease from Chapter 8 of the D&D Dungeon
Master’s Guide or invent a new one if appropriate.
Add the rank of the ancient to the DC of the saving
throw and change the method of delivery to con-
tact if it is otherwise.

 

Fear (Su): The ancient impose a supernatural
fear on those who see them. Those viewing the
ancient must make a Will save with DC (10 + 1/2
the ancient’s Hit Dice + the ancient’s Charisma
modifier). Failure means the victim is paralyzed
with fear for (ancient’s rank x 1d4) rounds. Whether
the target succeeds or fails, it cannot be affected by
the ancient’s fear aura again that day.

 

   

The ancient might receive additional special
attacks if it has any salient powers (see below).

Rejuvenation (Su): As if their physical invul-
nerability weren't enough, the ancient dead are
capable of drawing on the Positive Energy Plane to
heal damage. This is a relatively slow process and
requires the ancient to be inert fora period of time.
The following table shows the ancient’s rejuvenat-
ing capabilities:

  

Rank Rate Rest

One S/day | week/Iday
Two 6/hour I day/I day
Three 12/hour Iday/1 hour
Four W/minute Thour/! hour
Five 2/minute Thour/none

 
