Rank: The ancient’s rank. Ancient dead of
the first and second rank cannot rejuvenate once
brought to 0 or fewer hit points. Third- and fourth-
rank ancients cannot rejuvenate if brought to —10
or fewer hit points. Fifth-rank ancients can rejuy
nate even if destroyed and usually require some
special method of permanent destruction.

 

Rate: The rate at which the ancient recovers
hit points.

Rest: The number before the slash is the time
the ancient must lie inert before rejuvenation can
occur. The number after the slash is the time the
ancient must lie inert after rejuvenation is com-
plete. The ancient is always inert during
rejuvenation. An inert ancient is incapable of any
action and cannot perceive its surroundings; it is
effectively helpless. An ancient that has started
the rejuvenation process cannot end it until it is
completed

Special Qualities: As base character, plus the
following:

Energy Vulnerability (Ex): Each of the ancient
dead is vulnerable to a specific type of energy. The
energy type varies from creature to creature, but
vulnerability to fire is most common. The ancient

 

suffers double damage from attacks of this energy
type.

Immunity (Ex): The ancient dead are immune
to certain energy attacks. The exact immunity
varies from ancient to ancient, but most are im-
mune to cold. Powerful ancients might be immune
to additional types of energy. Table 5—6 shows how
many forms of energy the ancient is immune to.
Possible energy types include cold, fire, electricity,
sound, air based, water based, or earth based.

Resistance (Ex): Some ancients have energy
resistance 20 versus additional forms of energy
Whether the ancient has such additional resis-
tance is shown in Table 5-6.

Resistant to Blows (Ex): The ancient dead are
incredibly resistant to physical < Physical
attacks only do half damage, applied before damage
reduction.

  

tacks

Turn Resistance (Ex): The ancient receives
turn resistance at the value given in Table 5-6,

The ancient might receive additional special
qualities if it has any salient powers (see below).

 

Saves: Same as base character:
Abilities: Refer to Table 5-6. As an undead
creature, the base character no longer has a Consti-

tution score.

 
