granted power for that domain and can prepare the
spells for that cleric domain as domain spells. The
ancient’s other cleric domains are unaffected.

Improved Grab (Ex): The ancient gains the
improved grab ability. The ancient must hit with
its slam attack to use this ability.

Mummify (Su): The ancient can create lesser
mummies. This ability works only on victims who
died while infected with the ancient’sdisease power.
The embalming and animation process takes a full
day for each rank the ancient wants the new
mummy to possess. The ancient can create mum-
mies of lower rank than itself only. The created
mummy is completely under the ancient’s com-
mand.

Passage (Su): The ancient can create passages
through stone, earth, wood, or similar materials as
if it were casting the spell phase door, with effects as
if cast by a sorcerer of level equal to the ancient’s
Hit Dice. Each hour the ancient can create a
number of passages equal to its Hit Dice.

Spell Resistance (Ex): The ancient has spell
resistance of 20.

Weightlessness (Ex): The ancient has the odd
ability to control its body weight, giving it en-
hanced powers of movement. Its speed is increased
by +20 feet, and it can climb at a speed of 20 feet as
well. It leaves no tracks, even insnow, mud, or sand
and its movement is not hampered by such sur-
faces, A rank two ancient can pass over a bog or
quicksand as if it were a solid surface, while a rank
three ancient can pass over water and other liquids
as if they were solid. An ancient of the fourth rank
gains the additional ability to levitate itself as per
the spell at will. A rank five ancient can fly at a
speed of 20 feet, with clumsy maneuverability, in
addition to the above abilities.

Advancement
The ancient dead spend much of their time at
rest, making the likelihood of their gaining levels
small. An ancient who is particularly active might
be able to advance in a class, though cleric is the
only class one of the ancient dead is likely to pursue

  

with vigor.

Punting the Ancient Dead

Many groups that hunt the ancient dead begin
with the assumption that they are pursuing some
other type of creature, such as a lich. Once the
discovery that is made that they are, in fact, pursu-

      

ing one of the ancient dead, hunters may wish to
reexamine their methods.

Investigation and Reconnaissance

This phase of the pursuit is critical for success-
fully combating the ancient dead. The methods of
researching the monster and locating and spying
out its lair are similar to those used for tracking
liches, lycanthropes and other evil creatures. Par-
ticularly important is the discovery of the creature’s
specific weaknesses, including elemental vulner-
abilities, susceptibilities to holy water and holy
symbols and any allergens that might affect the
individual ancient dead.

Most ancient dead are susceptible to fire, but
occasionally hunters may encounter a creature
immune to flame but vulnerable to some other
substance, such as cold or water. Frequently a
mummy is immune to the elemental opposite of its
elemental vulnerability. For example, an ancient
dead susceptible to fire is immune to cold.

Holy water affects ancient dead according to
theirrank. As with other undead, attacks with holy
water must result in a splash attack on the target.
(See Ghosts above for methods of attacking with
holy water). The following table for damage due to
holy water.
