 

 

x i
5 Cable 5-7: Hncient Dead Damage +
~  fromPoly Gater 3
(Rank Damage per vial r
} One 2d4 t
Two Id6+1 z
/ Three Id6 r
Four 144 .
Five =

 

Ancient dead who were priests in life may take
damage from most holy symbols of nonevil deities.
Holy symbols of their own faith, however, can
rejuvenate damage rather than harm them.

See the following table for effects of holy
symbols by rank.

y }
4 7
< Cable 5-8: Effects of Holy ,

. ,
| Symbols on Ancient Dead ?
5 Rank Damage" Healing™
S One 2d4 143 ?
\ Two Id6+1 W417
‘Three 1d6 Ido t
» Four 1d4 2d6 ‘
Wine 248 ‘

{ *Denotes damage to mummies from holy symbols of
\ nonevil faiths
**Denotes damage rejuvenated by a holy symbol of /

g the ancient dead’s faith. tp

Ke —— ——t

Allergens can have several effects on one of the
ancient dead and these effects may not be mutually
exclusive. Substances to which the ancient dead is
vulnerable can act as either aversions or barriers.
Sometimes an allergen may act as both an aversion
and a barrier. Allergens that produce an aversion
may either exercise a fascination or repulsion over
the ancient dead, but the same substance may not
both fascinate and repel the creature.

Some items to which the ancient dead is
bonded give control of the creature to whoever
possesses the item. These are usually objects that
were important to the ancient dead in life and that
might have been interred with it. Sometimes places
orpeople serve as bonds. Mummies bound to places
usually serve as guardians of those places, whether
ancient temples, treasure hoards or palaces. Even if

este

 

 

these places are in ruins, the ancient is still held to
them. Sometimes ancient dead are bound to the
individual who created them or to a particular
office-holder, such as the high priest of a particular
temple or the ruler of the land. Knowing what, if
any, bonds the ancient possesses may give an indi-
cation of how difficult confronting and destroying
the ancient dead might be.

Additionally, mummies are often dependent
onanitem, an elixir ora maintenance ritual. These
items, called spirit items, are usually buried or en-
tombed with it and often control some of the
ancient’s powers. Destroying the items frequently
severs the ancient dead’s connection to the power
represented by the item.

Anancient may also possess a dependency on
a certain elixir or potion that it must imbibe at
prescribed intervals in order to maintain their
powers. If these potions can be identified and kept
from it, the creature usually grows weak and more
vulnerable to attacks. Some hunters go so far as to
taint the elixir with a known allergen.

Finally, ancient dead are sometimes dependent
‘on certain rituals that enable them to use their
powers. Either the ancient itself must perform the
ritual or it may compel another person to do so,
usually killing that person afterward to prevent knowl-
edge of the ritual to spread. Sometimes knowing the
nature of the ritual can provide an advantage. If an
ancient must view the full moon on its first night
every month, then hunters who know the location of
an ancient dead’s crypt may be prepared to meet the
creature before it can complete its ritual.

Clerics Turning

Ancient dead, like most undead, are susceptible
to turning by a cleric or paladin. Even so, mummies
are among the most powerful undead. Only the most
powerful and dedicated individuals may turn one of
the ancient dead. A rank five mummy may, in fact,
only be prevented from attacking the individual who
turned it, leaving the comrades of the cleric or
paladin vulnerable to attack.

Spells

Some spells are highly effective against the
ancient dead, while other spells work only sporadi-
cally. Many mummies have a powerful resistance
tospells that must first be overcome. The following
spells are particularly useful against ancient dead
‘Again, more information on spells may be found in
Van Richten’s Arsenal.
