 

oS

TT a A

Table 5-9: Spells and Cheir Gffects on Ancient Dead "

Spell Name Effect

Antimagic Field This spell stops a mummy's powers except for those delivered by touch.

Antipathy Functions normally with the exception that if the ancient dead makes its Will save, it takes no ill effects
from the spell.

Atonement This spell affects restless, recalled or servitor mummies, laying to rest those creatures whose actions
condemned it to its undead existence

Banishment This spell is effective against arecalled mummy’s spirit, destroying it permanently; ithas no effect on
other types of ancient dead.

Dismissal This spell can lay recalled ancient dead to rest.

Dispel evil This spell can lay to rest some mummies

Feeblemind This spell affects only ancient dead with spellcasting ability, but the mummy may make another Will
save each hour after the spell is cast to negate the effects of the spell.

Holy word Weak mummies are laid torest by this spell; more powerful ones are subject to the spell’s other effects.

Legend lore This spell is extremely useful in uncovering information about the ancient dead beforehand.

Light This spell can blind an ancient if cast directly into its eyes; otherwise it has no effect

Limited wish This spell can reveal key information about an ancient, cure mummy rot and nullify other adverse
effects of an encounter with a mummy. It is not, however, powerful enough to destroy a mummy

Magic circle against evil While this spell does not keep out the ancient dead, it Functions normally with regard to adjustments
to caster’s AC and saves

Mordenkainen’s disjunction The spell is effective on spells cast by the mummy but does not affect the ancient dead itself.

Protection from evil See magic circle against evil above.

 

ere “This sna destr-ays mummies of ranks onto three by returning them to lfeina different body. The

ante may ba-aa said however, tate ie renrcerctedl crestire ecdenventd
Removecurse | Apowerfulspellcaster can sometimes bring inalrest to arenk ane or rank twa mummy, provided they

are servitor mummies.
Rericie iaeace i Thitersll crestnenni pete creeeoel es redionly by rasctcel nears 7
Ravebead ITHis rel serreet vee aeatee ahi one ond ank fwrotrnunmniess destrey ing Hien J
Reuven “Ths useful spel destroys ancient dead of any rank.
Terpporal Stasis | Thisspellia efulin preventing encient dead fronireca very fron domegeor regaining pert powereiame
Trap the Soul This spell can contain even the most powerful mummies while a permanent way of destroying them or

ane enerese tried
Wish Pre enteric gneotrialteanicectiy eatin lecan leo irceven tie oniitee ieteneeett a

reveal its weaknesses and provide other useful information about the creature.

   

sian wi

Few hunters, no matter how successful and
persistent their careers, ever have the misfortune of
encountering one of the fell creatures known as

@eapons

Mostancient dead are difficult to damage with
normal weapons, as these creatures absorb much of

the damage. Magical weapons or weapons specially
crafted for slaying mummies have much more suc-
cess in causing damage. In some cases, ancient dead
take extraordinary damage from certain types of
weapons that were significant in the mummy’s
lifetime. Again, researching the quarry is the key to
a successful hunt.

fiends

| lesh and blood can do nothing, sir, against

devils; and that’s what's in the Grey Room

after dark.”

d — William Hope Hodgson, “The
Gateway of the Monster”

 

fiends. These infernal monstrosities are evil to an
extent that most cannot imagine, so much so that
they warp the fabric of reality around themselves.
They are the embodiment of everything van
Richten spent his life trying to combat, yet with all
his knowledge, skill and preparation, even he was
overmatched in his lone confrontation with one of
these entities. Do not lightly seek them out, for to
fall into their clutches is to risk not only one’s life,
but also one’s very soul.

Cransposition

Van Richten uncovered two ways in which a
fiend might find itself in the Land of Mists. The
first of these is the process known as transposition
