 

 

 

in which a fiend slowly trades places with a mortal
already within Ravenloft.

Fiends appear capable of sensing the thoughts
and feelings of mortals, even from another plane.
They are particularly able to detect thoughts of evil
and wickedness, and they are drawn to these as a
moth is to a candle. Fiends appear to feed in some
way from the wickedness of mortals (though it may
in fact be psychological pleasure they receive rather
than physical nourishment), and a fiend who man-
ages to find a budding source of evil seeks to bring
it to fuller bloom. A psychic link is formed between
the fiend and its unwitting vessel, and the fiend
uses this link to encourage the mortal to greater
and greater acts of infamy. As the mortal succumbs,
the bond between the two grows ever stronger. The
mortal begins to physically change, increasingly
resembling the fiend. This is an extremely painful
process. The fiend’s lust for continued malevo-
lence eventually proves its undoing. If it continues
to spur the mortal on, it eventually takes the
mortal’s place in Ravenloft. The mortal is trapped
in whatever infernal realm the fiend came from,
while the fiend is trapped in Ravenloft in turn.

An individual who fails a powers check might
find herself transposing with a fiend in lieu of the
usual consequences. Transposition occurs in five
stages, with each failed powers check moving the
victim to the next stage. The exact effects of each
stage of transposition can vary depending on the
type of fiend involved, but all transpositions have
the effect of granting fiendish characteristics to the
afflicted.

 

At stage one, the psychic bond between the
fiend and the victim is formed. This stage is accom-
panied by minor physical changes in the victim,
which can usually be disguised with difficulty. A
victim transposing with a nabassu might find that
his eyes have turned entirely gray, for instance,
while one transposing with a succubus might actu-
ally become more physically attractive, with
wrinkles smoothing and blemishes vanishing. Some
minor aches accompany this stage, but they are not
debilitating.

In stage two, the victim suffers a glaringly
obvious physical change, such as gaining scales or
horns, and the pain increases drastically. So great
is the pain that the victim suffers a—1 penalty onall
skill and ability checks.

In stage three, the transposition begins in
earnest. The “fiendish” template is applied to the
victim. The victim’s fiendish characteristics are
