 

   

now unmistakable. The victim might have scales
from head to toe, or small, nonfunctional wings
might sprout from her back.

In stage four, the fiend has nearly taken the
victim's place. The “fiendish” template is removed
and replaced with the “half-fiend” template. The
DM should feel free to alter the template to better
represent the breed of fiend the victim is bonded
with.

With stage five, the mortal is doomed and the
fiend entrapped. The mortal vanishes to the infer-
nal realms, and the fiend takes her place in
Ravenloft.

A victim can be saved from transposition
through the third stage, though this is a difficult
prospect. Some spells can aid the victim. Ifa cleric
native to Ravenloft casts holy word on the victim,
the fiend is permanently forced from the victim’s
body. The victim may not survive, however. The
victim must make a Fortitude save (DC 15 + the
stage of transposition). Failure means the victim
dies, but such a death is certainly preferable to the
fate that otherwise awaited the victim. The spell
banishment may also rid the victim of the fiend. The
effect is the same, though in this case the fiend gets
a Will save to throw off the effects. Unfortunately,
the victim retains all physical changes. A stage-
three victim does lose the fiendish template, but
his physical appearance remains the same. Neither
spell can save a victim in the fourth stage of
transposition.

 

 

 

Conjuring

A more common way for a fiend to enter
Ravenloft is through magical conjuration.

The gate spell is an example of how a fiend
might be magically called to Ravenloft. When the
conjured fiend finds that it cannot return to its
plane of origin, it will certainly be incensed. The
summoner had best have magical means of com-
pulsion ready, such as the binding spell, though it
would be far wiser not to conjure a fiend at all.

Reality (rinkles

The very presence of fiends has a warping
effect on their surroundings. This warping is called
a reality wrinkle. The sheer, undiluted evil of the
fiend reacts with the Mists and creates what is
essentially a mobile pocket domain centered on

the fiend.

 

The size of the reality wrinkle is directly re-
lated to the power of the fiend. Powerful fiends
such as pit fiends or balors have incredibly large
reality wrinkles, while weak fiends such as imps
might have reality wrinkles that barely extend
beyond themselves. A typical fiend has a reality
wrinkle with a radius of 2,000 feet per Hit Die, but
individual fiends might have reality wrinkles that
vary greatly from this guideline.

Asmentioned above, the reality wrinkle serves
as a pocket domain, with the fiend itself as lord.
Unlike a true darklord, however, the fiend is not
cursed, and it is free to wander within Ravenloft as
it wishes. The reality wrinkle moves with the fiend,
and wherever the fiend travels it temporarily usurps
control of the land around it. This means that the
closed borders of adomain cannot hinder the fiend,
for its reality wrinkle supersedes those borders. Nor
can a darklord exert any of its ermted powers
within a fiend’s reality wrinkle. Darklords are im-
mediately aware of any fiends within their domain,
as they can feel the sudden severance with a por-
tion of their land.

Power Rituals

Under normal circumstances, fiends exert no
special powers within their reality wrinkles other
than those described above. There is a method,
however, known as a power ritual, for the fiend to
gain such powers.

A power ritual is an arcane rite, known only to
fiends, that enables a creature to draw great power
directly from the land itself. The exact nature of
these rituals is unknown, and each one seems to be
unique. A fiend can only attempt one power ritual
in each domain. After that one attempt, whether it
succeeds or fails, the fiend is unable to draw further
power from that land and must try another domain.
in its place.

If the ritual is successful (see the table below),
the fiend’s reality wrinkle immediately shrinks to
halfits former size, and its bond to the Land of Mists
grows stronger. Corruption points represent this
bond. The mote corruption points a fiend pos-
sesses, the stronger its bond to the land. A fiend
starts with 0 corruption points. Each successful
power ritual raises its corruption point total by 1d4.
Corruption points make it harder for the fiend to
successfully complete furure power rituals, and
they also make it harder for the fiend to escape
Ravenloft.

 

 
