—

   

Corruption Points Chance of Failure
0 0%
1-2 10%
3-4 20%
5-6 30%
7-8 40%
7-10 50%
N12 60%
13-14 70%
15-17 80%
18-21 70%
22+ 100%

Corruption Points: The number of corrup-
tion points the fiend possesses at the start of the
ritual.

Chance of Failure: The percentage chance
that the power ritual fails and the percentage
chance that any subsequent attempt by the fiend to
leave Ravenloft fails. Fiends with many corruption
points are so tightly bound to the land that they
may be unable to successfully use portals or magic
items that would normally enable them to escape.

On the other hand, the fiend gains one land-
based power. See Land-Based Powers below.

If the power ritual fails, the consequences are
severe. The fiend suffers 6d10 points of damage as
magical energy burns and scars its body from the
inside. The fiend may not apply any resistances to
this damage. This damage cannot be magically
healed or regenerated, though most of the loss is
regained naturally over time. One quarter of the hit
point loss, however, is permanent and never is
regained. Other consequences are possible, such as,
gaining corruption points or even being perma-
nently banished from the domain.

Land-Based Powers

Fiends acquire land-based powers using power
rituals, as described above. Each domain grants a
unique power to fiends that successfully perform
powerrituals within their borders. Samples of those
powers are given in the list below. Unless otherwise
noted, all land-based powers are considered super-
natural powers, and any relevant saves against
them are at DC (10 + 1/2 the fiend’s Hit Dice + the
fiend’s Charisma modifier).

Barovia (Obscuring Mist): The fiend can create
an obscuring mist within its reality wrinkle at will.
This mist has the same effect as the spell, save that
it lasts until dismissed by the fiend. The fiend is
unhampered by the mist.

 

ae

Borea (Poison Touch): Once per day the fiend
can poison living creature by making a successful
touch attack. This virulent poison is identical in
effect to black lotus extract (see Poison in the
D&D Dungeon Master's Guide).

Darkon (Forget): Once per day the fiend can
cause all creatures within its reality wrinkle to
forget all events of the past 24 hours if they fail a
Will save. Any mind-affecting spells that were
influencing the affected creatures are dispelled by
this effect.

Dementlieu (Mass Charm): Once per day the
fiend can invoke a variation of the mass charm spell.
All humanoids of Medium or smaller size in the
fiend’s reality wrinkle are affected as though the
fiend had cast charm person on them. A successful
Willsave negates the effects. No limit exists on the
number of creatures the fiend can have charmed in
this manner at one time. The charm lasts | hour for
every Hit Die the fiend has, or until the target is
outside the fiend’s reality wrinkle.

G’Henna (Cause Hunger): Once per day, the
fiend can cause all creatures within its reality
wrinkle to become insatiably hungry and thirsty if
they fail a Will save. Those who fail the save are
compelled to seek out and consume all food and
drink they can find. They are compelled to con-
sume only that which is actually edible and are not
compelled to consume that which they know to be
poisoned. They are not compelled to act violently
to satisfy this craving, though they might resort to
theft. The effect lasts | round per Hit Die of the
fiend, or until the target leaves the fiend’s reality
wrinkle.

Har’ Akir (Disease Touch): At will, the fiend
can deal a disease on living creatures with a suc-
cessful touch attack. The disease is identical in
effect to devil chills (see Disease in the D&D
Dungeon Master's Guide).

Hazlan (Detect Magic): The fiend is constantly
aware of any magic cast within its reality wrinkle.
It knows the precise location of the casting and
which spell was cast.

Invidia (Corrupt Life): At will, the fiend can
cause all plant life within its reality wrinkle to
shrivel and die. Animals seek to flee the fiend’s
reality wrinkle the moment this power is used, but
its use causes them no lasting harm.

Kartakass (Siren Song): Once per day the fiend
cansingasoft, melodic song that is carried through-
out its reality wrinkle. All who hear the song are
affected as though a sleep spell had been cast on

  

 
