    
 

them. A successful Will save negates the effect. No
limit exists on the number of creatures that can be
affected by this spell.

Lamordia (Hyper-regeneration): The fiend be-
gins healing at an amazing rate whenever its hit
points fall to 0 or lower. The fiend regains 10 hit
points a round until fully healed.

Mordent (Phantom Shift): At will, the fiend can
createa phantom shift (asa ghost above) within its
reality wrinkle. All creatures within the reality
wrinkle are able to see and touch ethereal reso-
nance. This effect lasts until the fiend dispels it

Verbrek (Mass Polymorph): Once per day the
fiend can create a mass polymorph effect. All human-
oids of Medium or smaller size are affected as though
a baleful polymorph spell had been cast on them. A
successful Will save negates the effect. Failure means
that the target is transformed into an animal of the
fiend’s choice. All targets are transformed into the
same type of animal. The effect lasts 1 round per Hit
Die of the fiend, or until the target leaves the fiend’s
reality wrinkle.

 

 

 

Fiends are rumored to possess many other
sinister powers. The DM is encouraged to give the
fiend powers appropriate to the campaign.

RHunting fiends

Of all the creatures in Ravenloft, fiends are
among the most deadly and heinous creatures
They prey upon not only the body, but the soul 2
well. Anyone desiring to hunt down and rid the
Land of the Mists of one of these foul creatures
should prepare themselves thoroughly before seek-
ing out their quarry.

Detecting the fiend’s Presence

Few hunters set out with the intention of
fighting a fiend, Rather, they are drawn to a place
in response to some other impetus, such as a series
of unexplained murders or rumors of a cult spring-
ing up in some small village. Some observant
individuals may notice a strangeness in the air,
evidence of the fiend’s reality wrinkle. Rumors of
odd shimmerings of the air or a sense of “wrong-
ness” about a place may be the first hint that a fiend
has come to occupy a part of Ravenloft and stake its
claim to part of the Dread Realm.

The pattern of murders may also alert investi-
gators to the presence of a fiend. Exceptionally
brutal or ritual murders are often hallmarks of a
fiend’s bloodthirstiness and desire for inflicting

 

 

 

pain and suffering. This stage of the investigation
is certainly not for the squeamish.

The tise ofa cult ina town or village may be a sure
sign ofafiend, since these creaturesseek to gatheraround
thema group of willingservants and protectors. Hunters
are advised not toattempttojoinsuchacultin the hopes
of exposing the fiend. Too often, it is the hunter who is
exposed, to his detriment.

 

 

 

The process of transposition causes a visible effect
on the host body. Townspeople may remark that “old
man Jellinsisn’tlookinglike himselflately” may provide
theessential clue thatmakesall the otherclick intoplace
and reveal the presence of a fiend.

The ability of a paladin to sense the presence
of evil outsiders such as fiends and to do effective
battle against them cannot be denied. Hunting
parties would do well to make certain that they
enlist a paladin for their mission. Indeed, most
paladins willingly volunteer for such a task.

Lastly, study the effects of a fiend’s passing
carefully. From observing how its presence affects
the land and how it attempts to corrupt people,
hunters may deduce its most frequently used pow-
ers and take steps to acquire protection from those
abilities before taking on the creature in battle.

 

    

Joining a cult dedicated to the fiend in the
hopes of spying on it and learning its powers may be
possible for characters with good stealth-related
skills and the ability to disguise themselves
nonmagically, but itisa risky proposal at best. Ifthe
cult discovers the spy in its midst, they will not only
be warned (and thus be able to warn their master),
they may slay the character outright or offer him as

 

gS
