 

a sacrifice to their fiendish lord. They may even
attempt to convert the character, giving him a
choice between joining them and dying or tortur-
ing him until he agiees to join. If this happens, the
fiend has a double agent it can use against the
hunters, leading them into a trap.

Most observations of a fiend are best made,
therefore, from a distance through indirect means.

Confronting the Fiend

A number of items and techniques are useful
in combating fiends. Successful hunters take ad-
vantage of every opportunity, combining spells,
traps and weaponry to focus their attacks on the
creature. Battling fiends leaves little room for error.

Magical weapons are a requirement for fight-
ing most fiends, though the power of the item
varies from fiend to fiend. Some fiends are rumored
to be vulnerable to iron weapons. In general, the
stronger the magic weapon, the better chance it
has of penetrating the fiend’s defenses.

Although clerics or paladins cannot tum fiends,
holy water is effective against them when used as a
weapon.

Most fiends have at least some resistance to
spells. Even so, magic spells are generally useful if
they can bypass the creature’s spell resistance. Defen-
siveand protective spells enable hunters to withstand
a fiend’s attacks long enough to deal damage to it.

Since most fiends can use teleport at will, they
often have a distinct advantage in combat. Van
Richten once spoke of an elaborate cage designed
to prevent a fiend from teleporting, essentially
trapping the fiend and its hunters in a magical field
until the fiend is either destroyed or defeats its
opponents. The cage requires much time, labor and
resources to construct, making it impractical in
instances where time is a factor, but the intent of
the device is worth remembering. Anyone wishing
to go against a fiend must consider the creature’s
extreme mobility and the likelihood that it can
teleport away if the battle begins to go against it.

Cable 5-10: Spells and Cheir Effects on fiends

Spell Name Effect
‘ Align weapon Can help a weapon bypass a fiend’s damage reduction.
: Antimagic field This spell offers protection and acts as a barrier against fiends.
; Banishment This spell forces the fiend into a random part of Ravenloft
: Bless Provides additional resistance and assists in attacks.
‘ Bless weapon Enables a weapon to bypass a fiend’s damage reduction.
} Binding This spell can effectively confine a fiend.
Break enchantment This spell can free a companion from any fiendish enchantments.
. Dictum This spell can also banish a fiend to another location in Ravenloft.
Dimensional anchor Affects a fiends ability to teleport.
\ Dismissal A fiend affected by this spell is sent to another part of Ravenloft
Dispel evil This spell can drive a fiend to another location within Ravenloft
; Forbiddance Keeps a fiend out of a certain area.
es Forcecage This spell can trap a fiend.
\ Holy aura This spell offers certain protections against the powers of fiends
7 Holy word The extraplanar function of this spell sends the fiend elsewhere in Ravenloft.
j Imprisonment This spell can imprison a fiend without sending it to another plane.
¢ Iron body Fiends that are vulnerable to iron can be hurt by hunters with this spell cast on them.
é Legend lore Reveals information about the fiend.
% Magic circle against evil This spell is effective in protecting a group against fiends.

Magic weapon
Magic weapon, greater
Power word kill
Prayer

‘ Protection from evil
Spell resistance

      

 

 

Nonmagical weapons become effective against fiends.
‘As magic weapon.

Fiends who fail their spell resistance may be subject to this potent spell

This spell functions normally.
This spell functions normally against fiends
Can help avoid a fiend’s spell-like attacks.

~*~

pow

Sweery io"

LA
