  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

will make you richer and more fortunate
than you have ever been, but you must
promise that you will give me whatever has

 

 

 

just been born in your house.” ... When he
was nearly there, the maid opened the front
door and called out to him that there was good news:
his wife had just given birth to a little boy

 

Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, “The Nixie in
the Pond”

Of the monsters van Richten documented in
his treatises, hags are the one with which he had

 

the least personal experience. That comes as no
surprise, as these foul blights against nature are
fortunately rare in the Land of Mists. Unfortu-
nately, van Richten’s velative ignorance of hage
meant that he had to turn to another for informa-
tion, and that source, a hag itself, can hardly be
considered trusted confidante. A would-be hunter
of hags should be cautious and not surprised if the
foes she faces differ greatly from what she expects

 

Origins
The true nature of hags remains something of a
mystery. Van Richten’s research led him to conclude
thathagswereauniquespecies, perhapsrelated tothefey
races, but a species dependent on human males for
procreation. They use their magical abilities to disguise
themselves as human females and conceive children
with human males while in these guises. The hag
abandons the child, placing it with surrogate parents,
this is usually done by switching the hag child with a
normal human newbom. The child appears to be a
normal human female until it reaches advanced middle
age, at which point it begins to physically change into a
hag. There is anecdotal evidence, however, that per-
fectly normal human females can also transform into
hags, particularly those who delve deeply into the magi-
calarts. Therearealsotalesofpowerful cursestransforming
women into hags

The Change

Regardless ofhow it actually occurs, whena female
becomes a hag she goes through what is known as the
Change. The Change usually occurs sometime after the
woman's fortieth year and before the fiftieth. Once the
woman starts going through the Change, the following
“Hag” template is applied to her

 

 

Type: Changes to Monstrous Humanoid.
Hit Dice: Increase to d8 unless already higher.

Speed: Same as base creature.
