 

 

like abilities, which can be any 0- or Ist-level spells
from the druid or sorcerer/wizard spell lists. Hags
prefer spells that command or corrupt the natural
world or that enable them to harm or hamper living
creatures. Likely choices include charm person, danc-
ing lights, ghost sound, obscuring mist, summon monster
I, pass without trace, ray of enfeeblement and sleep. The
spell-like abilities gained can be used at will

Medium Magic: Whenever the hag receives a
Medium Magic power as a result of aging, it receives
the listed number of spell-like abilities. These spell-
like abilities can be any 2nd- or 3rd-level spells from
the druid or sorcerer/wizard spell lists. Likely choices
include animal trance, fog cloud, hold person, invisibil-
ity, scare, speak with animals, summon monster III,
tongues and water breathing. The spell-like abilities
gained can be used three times per day.

Major Magic: Whenever the hag receives a Major
Magic power as a result of aging, it receives the listed
number of spell-like abilities. These spell-like abilities
can be any 4th- or 5th-level spells from the druid or
sorcerer/wizard spell lists. Likely choices include animal
growth, animate dead, insect plague, solid fog, summon
monster V, tree stride and wall of thoms. The spell-like
abilities gained can be used once per day.

Supernatural Ability: Whenever the hag re-
ceives a supernatural ability as a result of aging, it
may select one special ability from the list below.
Saves to resist these powers are at DC (10 + 1/2 the
hag’s Hit Dice + the hag’s Charisma modifier)

Corruptive Aura: Hags disrupt the natural world
with their very presence. Within a certain radius of
a hag, the natural world ceases to function as it
should. Weather patterns become incongruous, with
rain falling during the summer or the sun shining
brightly during winter. Animals behave oddly, with
predators becoming timid and herbivores becoming
aggressive. The older the hag, the wider the radius of
this corruptive aura, as shown on Table 5-11. The
effects of the corruptive aura are mostly cosmetic,
unless the DM rules otherwise. However, a hag’s
corruptive aura does count as a sinkhole of evil.

Cursed Glare (Su): This power is identical to
the sea hag special ability evil eye, except for the
Fortitude save DC, which is determined as above.

Horrific Appearance (Su): This power is iden-
tical to the sea hag special ability, except for the
Fortitude save DC, which is determined as above.

Soothing Song (Su): Three times per day the hag
can singa soothing Lullaby that puts nearby creatures
tosleep. The radius for this poweris 60 feet. Allliving
creatures within that radius (except for any hags,

whoare immune) must succeed ata Will save. Those
who fail fall asleep as if a sleep spell had been cast on
them byasorcerer of level equal to the hag’s Hit Dice,
or of 8th level, whichever is greater.

Weakening Touch (Su): This power is identical
to the green hag power weakness, except for the
Fortitude save DC, which is determined as above.

Coveys
Hags in Ravenloft form coveys just as standard
hags do, and gain identical powers when part of a
covey, except that the spells cast by a hag covey
take effect at a level equal to the Hit Dice of the
oldest hag + 2, or at 9th level, whichever is higher.

  

Advancement

Hags can continue to gain levels as they did before
the Change. They prefer to gain levels in physically
oriented classes such as fighter or rogue, as they believe
theirnaturally gained magical abilitiesaresuperiortoany
forms ofmagic they mightlearn. Hagscannot gain levels
as druids, as the nature of their magic is antithetical to
druidic tenets. Hag clerics lose the ability to tum undead
but gain an equivalent ability to rebuke undead. Hag
clerics have access to the Destruction, Evil, Plant and
Trickery domains.

fighting hags

Hags, like fiends, are insidious creatures, corrupting
the land they claim as their own. Most hags seem to do
evilfortheirown mysterious purposes, though some may
serve more powerful masters. Battling hags takes a
concerted effort, because these creatures are not only
powerful and dangerous, but they enjoy working in
groups, a tactic that augments their power.

Discovering the Dag

Many of the damaging effects of hags are also
indicators of other monsters. Hunters coming across
signs of devastated and ruined lands, cowed and
frightened people and strange variations in nature,
should first rule out the presence of other creatures
such as fiends, vampires or other intelligent mon-
sters. Close observation of the nature of the blight
may reveal a cyclical nature or may provide evidence
indicating the presence of a hag or a covey of hags.

Variations in nature might includean odd warp-
ing of the landscape, strange fogs that come and go
and seem toassume solid form, oversized-animals, an
abundance of monsters uncommon to the territory,
plagues of insects and other indications that a hag’s
powers over the natural world are on display.
