 

  
   

Time spent in conversation with the local
population mayunearth tales and rumors of “witch-
women” or “seductresses” (since hags may use their
disguise self ability to change their appearance)
appearing to lone travelers and luring them to
some dire fate. Hunters should pay particular at-
tention to rumors of several of these women
appearing at one time, a possible indication of a
covey of hags.

Cable 5-12: Spells Useful Against Bags

eas a

  

Pursuers should also take care that they do not
mistake innocent women for these foul creatures
and should thoroughly investigate any rumors or
tales they hear before coming to the conclusion
that the monsters they face are, indeed, hags.

Gathering Resources and Information

Hags are powerful monsters and should not be
apptoached haphazardly, if possible. They are able to

‘A druid may be able to use this spell against the hag, possibly wresting some plants from the hag’s

Acid fog Can slow or even damage hags.
Align weapon This spell allows a weapon to bypass any damage reduction the hag might have.
Animal trance May neutralize a hag’s animal guardians.
Animate plants
control
Antimagic Field Prevents a hag from using her supernatural or spell-like abilities within the field.
Antiplant shell May keep out plants under hag’s control
Binding May be able to bind the hag with this spell

Bless weapon
Break enchantment
Calm animals

Aids in causing damage to hags.

May remove hag’s enchantments from victims.
May help in removing threat of attack from animals under the hag’s control

ChangestafF A druid can bring a powerful creature into the fight against the hag.

Charm animal May remove some animals from hag's control.

Command plants A good spell for neutralizing plants under hag’s control.

Consecrate May be useful in rendering the land resistant to the hag; helpful in aftermath.
Control plants May wrest some plants from hag’s control

Control weather The caster may try to counteract the hag’s control over her environment.
Detect snares and pits May reveal any traps the hag has set up within her lands.

Dispel magic Useful for undoing a hag’s magic

Dispel magic, greater See dispel magic, above.

Evard’s black tentacles Allows attacks on hags from a distance.

Globe of invuinerability Offers protection from most of a hag’s abilities
Globe of invuiner, lesser Protects against lower level magic of hags.

Hold animal May be useful against animals controlled by the hag,
Holy aura Assists those fighting the hag.

Holy smite May damage the hag.

Holy sword Make a weapon more effective against hags

Legend lore Useful for gathering information about most hags.
Locate creature Helps find the hag if she attempts to flee or hide.
Magic circle against evil Gives protection to a group From the hag’s powers.
Protection spells Provides protection from some or all of a hag’s powers.
Resistance Helps ward off hags’ magic

Shillelagh Can be effective against hags.

Silence Effective against some of the powers of a hag.

Speak with animals Can provide information about the hag.

Speak with plants See speak with animals, above.

Spell immunity Can protect against specific powers of a hag

Spell immunity, greater See spell immunity, above. This does not stack with lesser version of the spell.
Spell resistance See resistance, above.

Spell turning Can turn hag’s magic back on her

*

sine

Sy eases *”

 
