 

 

absorb damage by most weapons and they have a good
resistance to magic. Spells that overcome the hag's
ince, however, can inflict considerable damage to

 

resi

 

the creature. Therefore, magic weapons and items are
recommended to anyone going on a hag hunt.

Protections against the hag’s magic abilities
are also warranted. The hag’s natural attacks, spell-
like abilities and power to summon creatures to
fight for her result in a high potential for dealing
out damage to hunters. Although mosthag’sdo not
have general allergens, individuals may be vulner-
able to some specific substance for some reason
connected to their past associations.

Because of their tendency to disrupt the natural
cycles and warp the land to their own satisfaction, hags
may arouse the wrath of druids and rangers. These
adventuring classes are particularly useful in combating
hags and are usually more than willing to join a party of
hunters who have located a hag and wish to destroy it.
Druids, in particular, can attempt to counter the hag’s
affects on the land and its creatures, while rangers, with
theirfightingskillsandanimal affinities, can battlea hag
more efficiently than most fighters.

 

Knowledge is power, so research into the back-
ground of the particular hag targeted by a group of
hunters is important. Folk tales, collections of local
history and lore, bestiaries and travel accounts of other
adventurers may provide helpful information about a

 

’s territory, habits and peculiarities. Locating the
lair, either through the spell legend lore or through
scouting and reconnaissance missions, allows hunters to
decide whether to meet the hag in her lair or lure her
outsideitand preventherfrom retreating to safety. These
methodsmayalsoreveal whatalliesthe haghasacquired,
whether she is part of a covey and the location of any
natural or magic traps in the vicinity

Doing Battle

Engaging a hag or a covey of hags in battle
requires a concerted effort from both spellcasters
and fighters. By augmenting the natural strength of
a fighter, thus enabling him to do more damage,
and magically protecting party members who plan
to engage the hag in direct combat, a group of
hunters can maximize their chances for defeating
the hag. Ifa hag is a member of a covey, defeating
ordestroying one memberharms the other two and
prevents them from using the powers they gain
through membership in a covey.

  

Magic spells must overcome any spell resis-
tance to be effective, but they can prove effective
against hags who fail their resistance. Spells that
support or augment the abilities of the other hunt-
es ate perfiaps the most useful ones,

Picking Up the Pieces
Once the battle is over, the damage to the land-
scape caused by the hag’sdepredationsshouldberepaired.
Again, druids and rangers can provide the most assis-
tance in causing the land and its creatures to repair itself.
Priests can remove any magical foulness from the land,

 

 

 

 

while mages can help ward the land against further
intrusions by hags or other creatures.
Che Vistani

he had very red lips and very black eyes, she
was built like a greyhound, and had the

G } tongue of the devil
— F. Marion Crawford, “For the

Blood Is the Life”

The Vistani are the most enigmatic of
Ravenloft’s inhabitants. These wandering gypsies
somehow seem to be both separate from and inter
twined with everything that goes on in the Land of
Mists. They are secretive and insular, keeping
themstives isolated from the elamse, vet puevale
services and entertainment to those same giorgio
when the price is right. The mystery that surrounds
them, and their notorious power to curse those who
wrong them, cause them to be feared and hated by

SG
