 

many, yet their independent spirit and ability to
travel the nighttime wilderness without fear lead
them to be respected and even admired by many
others. They are a people composed of contradic-
tions, and it is unlikely that anyone not of their
blood ever fully understands them.

Appearance

The appearance of the Vistani can be as varied
as those of any other people, but certain character-
isticsare prevalentamongthem. Their complexions
are naturally dark and are often made darker by
exposure to the sun. Their hair is usually dark.
Their eyes are usually dark as well, with brown
being the most common shade, though hazel and
green eyes are not infrequent.

Lifestyle

The Vistani are a people without a home. They
gather in caravans, the members of which are all part of
a single extended family. These caravans wander the
Land of Mists, their belongings carried by pack animals
or loaded into covered wagons known as vardos. The
masterof the caravan iscalled the captain, an adult male
Vistana who decides when the caravan makes camp,
how long it stays and where it travels to next. He also
delegates responsibility to the other members of the
caravan and has the final word in all marters of trade and
commerce. Even the captain, however, issubservient to
the raunie, the matriarch of the caravan. The raunie is
often the oldest female Vistana in the caravan, though
this is not always the case. The raunie passes judgment
and gives sentence when crimes are committed within
acaravan, and her voice is listened toand respected inall
matters. The raunie is always.a seer of some ability and is
usually quite adept.

The Vistani do not tend fields and so have
learned to take what food they can from the land
itself. They are able to identify plants and animals
with remarkable facility and have little trouble
locating sources of drinking water. They are not
able hunters, preferring to herd cattle and to fish to
provide meat. They barter and purchase whatever
else they need from villages and are not averse to
stealing or rustling when times are lean.

The Vistani keep to themselves unless they have
something to gain by associating with outsiders. They
refertonon-Vistaniasgiorgio,a word that means roughly
“one who is not of the blood.” Its usage varies from
harshly insulting to mildly patronizing to merely factual.
The Vistani.asa whole do not hate or dislike giorgio, but
they rarely accord them much respect. They simply feel

  

that the giorgio have little to offer besides their coin. To
be a giorgio is to be ignorant of the world’s mysteries,
fearful of the unknown, limited in experience and
dependent on others for survival. To be a Vistana, in
their view, is to be none of those things. That the giorgio
often fearand hate them istestament to their unenlight-
ened natures. Not every Vistana is capable of being so
dispassionate in the face of prejudice, but most Vistani
recognize that Vistani are Vistani and giorgio are giorgio,
and the two are and always shall be separate. The way
things are is the way things are.

In the meantime, the Vistani have no compunc-
tions about cheating, lying or stealing in their dealings
with the giorgio, if they feel such double-dealings are
warranted. Vistani laws apply to the Vistani, and giorgio
laws apply to the giorgio. This doesn’t mean they won't
seek justice for a wrong done to them; it just means they
won't be surprised when the wrongdoing occurs.

Although those who have crossed them might
think otherwise, the Vistani are not an evil people. Nor
are theya good people. They simply are, in the same way
the woods they travel through simply are. The Vistani
see themselves as a part of nature in a way that giorgio do
not; in fact, another meaning of the word giorgio is
“unnatural.” The Vistani and the giorgio may often be at
odds, but this does not make one evil or the other good.

 

Language

The Vistani language is called the patterna. It
is an unusual language, a hodgepodge of various
humanoid languages and dialects that conveys
meanings less with the words spoken than with the
intonation and context of the speech. It has a
flowing, rhythmic quality when spoken correctly,
something for which few giorgio have the knack.
The Vistani script consists of symbols known as
tralaks. Tralaks are carved into trees or scrawled on
stones to convey important information to other
passing caravans. All tralaks are descriptive, with
each one meant to convey a certain quality about
the area in which it was written. One tralak is used
to warn Vistani of unfriendly giorgio in the area, for
instance, while another is used to mark a source of
fresh water. The Vistani have little other use for
writing, and on the rare occasion when they must
write something particularly long or meaningful,
they appropriate the script of a giorgio language.

Vistani Powers and Meaknesses

The Vistani are an inherently magical people.
Where this magic springs from is unknown, though
the Vistani have their own tales on the subject.

 

 
