Their magic certainly does not spring from adivine
source, as the Vistani pay homage to no deities.
Nor does it resemble arcane spellcasting, as the
Vistani have noneed forcomponents orspellbooks.
The magic of the Vistani seems to be a natural part
of their being, even more so for them than for
sorcerers. A sorcerermustcastspells, whilea Vistana
simply acts, and lets the magic take its own course.

Racial Craits

Although the Vistani are humans, they are a
very different breed of human. Full-blood Vistani
have all the racial traits of humans, with the
following exceptions. Vistani receive a +4 bonus to
their Wisdom score and a +2 bonus to their Cha-
risma score. They do not receive any ability score
penalties. They do not receive an extra feat at first
level, instead receiving the various powers de-
scribed below.

Full-blood Vistani are not recommended as a
player character race.

 

Curses
Vistani curses are legendary. Everyone fears
the Vistani for their power to curse their foes, and
no one crosses them lightly.

 

Vistani lay curses using the rules in Chapter
Three. Vistani curses are especially effective; all
full-blood Vistani receive the Voice of Wrath feat
as a bonus feat.

 

The Vistani favor certain types of curses over
others. The most common Vistani curse is a Scar,
an embarrassing or frustrating curse that serves as a
constant reminder of the folly of injuring the
Vistani. Scars are tailored to the individual. For
example, a man who prides himself on his wit, and
uses it against a Vistana, might find his tongue
swelling any time he attempts to be humorous.

Other common Vistani curses include the
Poisoned Carrot, a curse that compels the target to
pursue something and at the same time renders the
goal impossible to enjoy, and the Doombringer,
which causes misfortune to follow the victim ev-
erywhere. The most feared Vistani curse is the
mishamel, which literally causes the target to melt!
The mishamel is reserved for the most heinous
It is a lethal curse that at first causes only
perspiration for four days. The sweating is mild on
the first day but quickly worsens and becomes
profuse and repugnant by the fourth. After the
fourth day, the victim can no longer recover hit
points naturally and must make a DC 20 Fortitude

 

crime:

 

 

save each day or suffer 1 point each of permanent
Strength, Dexterity and Constitution drain. When
the victim’s Constitution finally reaches 0, she
melts intoa puddle of water and cannot be restored
to life by any means.

The Vistani can render their curses even more
effective if they possess a focus item. A focus item
isan item belonging to the target, suchas an article
of clothing; a part of the target’s body, such as hair
or nail clippings; an item the target has handled
within the last day; or an effigy or representation of
the target. A focus item gives the Vistani a bonus
to their curse check. The size of the bonus depends
on the quality of the item. A piece of the target’s
body is worth +4 to the check, while an item
belonging to the target is worth +3. An item
handled by the target is worth +2, while an effigy is
worth only +1.

The Vistani can withdraw their curses at will
but almost never choose to do so. However, they
typically include an escape clause within the curse,
as it renders the curse more effective. Besides, they
believe few giorgio are clever enough to make use of
escape clauses anyway.

The Evil Gye

A form of curse unique to the Vistani isthe evil
eye. Any Vistana can invoke this extraordinary
power against an enemy, but females are more
adept at this power. A Vistana can use this power
up to three times a day.

Evil Eye (Ex): The evil eye is treated as a gaze
attack, except that the Vistana must take a stan-
dard action to employ it, and those merely looking
at the Vistana are unaffected. The evil eye has one
of the following effects, chosen by the Vistana. All
saves against these effects are against DC (10 + 1/
2 the Vistana’s Hit Dice + the Vistana’s Charisma

 

 

 

modifier if the Vistana is a male, or 12 + 1/2 the

Vistana’s Hit Dice + the Vistana’s Charisma modi-
fier if the Vistana is a female).

Paralysis: The target must make a Will save
Those who fail are paralyzed for 1d4+1 rounds.
Targets who fail their saves by more than 4 are
paralyzed for 2 rounds then go into convulsions
that last for 3 rounds. These convulsions cause 1d8
points of damage each round. After the convul-
sions stop, the target must make a DC 15 Fortitude
save. Success means the target falls unconscious,
though this state more closely resembles sleep; the
target can be awakened easily. Failure means the
target dies immediately.

 

 
