.  —_ ~

Fear: The target must make a Will save. Failure
means the target is treated as though under the effe:
of a fear spell. The effect lasts for 1d4+1 rounds.

Domination: The target must make a Will save.
Failure means the target is treated as though under
the effects of a dominate person spell. The effect lasts
for 1d4+1 rounds.

Suggestion: The target must make a Will save.
Failure means that the target is treated as though
under the effects of a suggestion spell. The effect lasts
one day, or until the suggested task is completed.

Che Sight

Only slightly less fabled than the evil eye is the
Vistani power to see into the past and future. Only
female Vistani possess this power; Vistani legends
hold that men who seek to tell fortunes invite
destruction to themselvesand their entire caravan.

 

The method used by a Vistani seer to tell
fortunes is entirely up to the individual. Some
Vistani use crystal balls, while others prefer astrol-
ogy. The most well-known method of
fortune-telling is the tarokka deck, a deck of cards
with each bearing a different archetypal image.
Each card has a different meaning to the Vistani,
and the order and context in which each card is
drawn affects that meaning. Tarokka reading is an
art form, and the fortunes told by the tarokka can be
quite complex and detailed.

In the end, though, the method used by the
seer is only a focus. The true power of fortune-
telling lies within the individual, and the accuracy
of the fortune depends solely on the skill of the seer.

There is one limitation of note on the power of
the Vistani Sight. The Vistani as a whole are
unable to see their own past and future with any
clarity. They can see themselves in the past or
future indirectly, while telling fortunes for others,
but these moments will be vague and indistinct.
Great though their powers are, even the Vistani are
unable to know their own destiny.

The Vistani do not like to discuss these matters, but
male Vistani with the power of the Sight are born every
so often. They are always put to death immediately. A
prescient male is known as a Dukkar, and they are
believed to be creatures of great evil. The Vistani have
several tales of Dukkars who managed to survive to
adulthood, and none of them are pleasant.

Mist Navigation
Vistani have the uncanny ability to na
their way through the Mists that pervade Ravenloft.

 

 

igate

 

 

 

mply direct their caravan intoa bank
of mist and emerge a few minutes later from an-
other. The intervening distance may be hundreds
of miles, and the Vistani can freely travel between
the islands, the clusters and the Core. The Vistani
can take travelers with them and are usually willing
to do so fora price. As the only beings both able to
navigate the Mists and willing to profit from the
ability, they are free to command almost any price
they wish. The voyages through the Mists are
always on target, but not always without danger.
Many horrors lurk inside the Mists, and the Vistani
have become accustomed to fighting them.

Cracking Magic
While the Vistani are often skilled at mun-
dane forms of tracking, more impressive is the
Vistani power to mystically track individuals across
great distances. Common foci for this power are
divining rods and lodestones. The ability appears
to be infallible no matter the distance to target. If
the Vistani want to find you, they will. Magical
protection against detection or location can block
this power, but the Vistani are clever enough to use
indirect methods if necessary, such as tracking
down the target’s friends or alli

Static Burn

The Vistani are compelled to stay mobile.
This is not a mere psychological compulsion, but is
anactual physical affliction. Vistani whostay within
a mile of any point for longer than a week begin to
fall ill. The illness, resembling a flu or fever, is not
life threatening or seriously debilitating, but it is
only a symptom of the true problem. After 1d6+1
days of illness, the Vistana loses all of her magical
powers, and they can never be regained. These
Vistani are known as mortu, a word whose closest
translation is “living dead.” To the Vistani, the
mortu are no longer Vistani, but are instead akin to
giorgio. Mortu are despondent and restless at best,
mentally unbalanced at worst.

Casques and Cribes

The Vistani can be divided into three groups, each
sharing similar cultures, attitudes and ways of life. The
Vistani call these groups tasques. The three tasques are
the Kaldresh, the Boem and the Manusa. Each tasque is
further divided into tribes. The exact number of Vistani
tribes is not known, but van Richten’s research uncov-
ered seven: three in the Kaldresh tasque and two each in
the Boem and Manusa tasques. Information on each
tasque and tribe is given below.

  

Se
