   

Kaldresh

The Vistani of the Kaldresh tasque are generally
the most practical of the Vistani, concerning them-
selves more with crafts and trade than entertainment
or mysticism. Kaldreshites tend to be physically fit
and well suited for long travel and hard labor. They
are pragmatic and somber in both dress and de-
meanor, eschewing unnecessary ostentation.

The Kaldresh are polite to giorgio and put up with
insults and harassment that Vistani of other tasques
would not likely suffer. This is merely an extension of
their practicality, as they recognize the importance and
necessity of giorgio coin. This is not to say that they are
friendly with giorgio; they suffer their company but
almost never accept them as friends.

Powers: The Kaldresh are the tasque least
concerned with mystical matters, but they are not
without powers of their own. They are apparently
extremely long lived, and indeed, the Kaldresh
believe that they are removed from time alto-
gether. They do not appear to mean this
metaphorically, and their powers of fortune-telling
would seem to support their beliefs. A Kaldreshite
seer is able to see events far in the past or in the
future as if they were occurring now, and to the
Kaldresh that may indeed seem to be the case.

The Kaldresh also have an unusual talent for
locating conflict. Wherever blood is about to be
spilled in war, it seems as though the Kaldresh have
already arrived, ready to sell weapons or provide
healing to the soldiers.

Crafts: The Kaldresh survive by crafting goods
and performing services for the giorgio. Each tribe of
the Kaldresh specializes in a different craft. Many of
their crafts go to supply armieson the march. Inmany
ways, the Kaldresh remove the necessity for supply
wagons, as they always seem to have what an army
might need and seem to be there to provide it. This
is certainly a profitable skill for the Kaldresh, but it
gives them an unfortunate reputation as feasters on
human misery. Giorgio who know of the Kaldresh
often call them “carrion crows.” Some even claim
that they cause conflicts just so they can have the
opportunity to profit from them. The Kaldresh ig-
nore these insults, knowing that the giorgio need no
encouragement to fight amongst themselves.

Whennowarsare being fought, the Kaldresh setup
camps on the edge of villages. They sell their goods at
prices just low enough to undercut the local merchants,
eaming them no small amount of enmity. After a few
days, they pack up and move on to the next town.

 

 

 

Tribes: There are three known tribes within the
Kaldresh tasque: the Kami, the Equaarand the Vatraska.

The Kamii are excellent metalworkers, rival-
ing dwarves in their skills. They craft and sell
weapons, armor, metal jewelry, tools ...virtually
anything made of metal can be found and pur-
chased at a Kamii camp. They do not create magic
items and therefore rarely have them for sale, but
they do craft and sell masterwork weapons.

The Kamii also sell “cursed” weapons to those who
insult or displease them. These weapons appear to be
normal, even high-quality weapons, but they are subtly
and skillfully flawed. “Cursed” weapons suffer a —1
enhancement penalty on attack and damage rolls. The
weaponsare not magically cursed and may be dropped or
discarded at any time, but the flaws are so skillfully
concealed that an DC 20 Appraise check is required to
notice anything wrong with them.

The Equaar are expert animal breeders, han-
dlers and trainers. When traveling, they resemble
nothing so muchas shepherds working to make sure
their disparate flocks and packs of animals do not
wander off. Virtually any kind of animal can be
bought at an Equaar camp, including animals that
have already been trained. Trained animals sold by
the Equaar include riding animals such as horses and
ponies, pack animals such as donkeys and mules and
hunting animals such as dogs and falcons. Equaar
horsesare particularly prized and sell forat least twice
as much as standard horses. They are worth the cost,
however, as each is fully trained to obey a variety of
commands. Equaar horses bond with their owners
quickly and accept no other riders.

All the Equaar have natural skill with animals
and can be considered to have the Handle Animal
skill at high levels. Many of the Equaar also possess
the Track feat, enabling them to find wayward
animals. They have been known to sell their ser-
vices as trackers as well.

The Vatraska are healers and herbalists. They
are a small tribe, and their caravans are difficult to
find. Even when found, they may be mistaken for
the Kamii, for they supplement their healing arts
with blacksmithing and tinkering, though they do
not approach the skill of the Kamii.

All Vatraska are trained from a young age in the
healing arts and therefore possess the Craft (alchemy)
and Heal skills to varying degrees. The Vatraska spe
ize in brewing healing potions, but virtually any varie
of potion can be found at their camps. They are also
excellent makers of poisons and sell them with no
questions asked. Their dual nature as healers and sellers

 

 

Ss
