 

nee - =

 

of poisons may seem like a contradiction, but the
Vatraska act out of neither altruism nor malevolence.
They simply do what they must to survive.

Boemians

Unlike the Kaldresh, the Boemians strive for
ostentation. They lack the Kaldreshite talents for
crafts, so they turn toservices instead, and the service
they specialize in is entertainment. The Boem flair
for entertainment pervades their lives. Boem cara-
vans are constantly accompanied by music. The
people sing as they go about their daily business.
‘Their vandos are brightly decorated and their cloth-
ing gaudily colored. Even giorgio who fear and hate
the Vistani cannot help but be entranced by the
sounds and sights of a passing Boem caravan.

The Boemiansarea passionate people, and their
moodsshiftabruptly. In public, outamong the giorgio,
the Boemians are charming, lively and romantic.
They are open and friendly but cultivate just enough
mystery to leave the giorgio curious and eager. In
private, amongst only themselves, the Boemians are
dark, angry and brooding. They lament having to
play the clowns for foolish townspeople who despise
them. They bitterly deride giorgio for their settled
lifestyle, yet they are equally jealous that they have
no home to call their own. Boem camps are quietand
tense witha palpable feeling of anger in the air. They
do not sing at night as they do in the day, instead
telling tales of tragedy and horror. The Boemians are
atormented people, yet every morning they find the
resolve to go forth and make merry once more.

Powers: The Boemians do not take a very
mystical view of themselves or the world. They do
not see themselves as removed from time as the
Kaldresh do, and indeed their life spans appear to be
much shorter than those of the Kaldresh. For them,
time marches on inexorably, and no creature is
capable of escaping it. This does not mean the
Boemians lack the Kaldreshite skill at fortune-tell-
ing, however. Indeed, if the past and future are fixed
and certain, as the Boem believe, all one has to do is
map their course. Boemian seers are often able to see
specific moments in the past or future with total
clarity, but what lies between then and now may be
a mystery. How well a seer guesses what lies between
then and now is the true measure of his skill.

The Boemiansseem to radiate a calming influ-
ence on others. Having negative feelings in the
presence of a Boemian is a difficult thing to do.
Anyone in the presence of a Boemian must make
a DC 15 Will save each round to maintain a
negative feeling such as anger, suspicion or hatred.

 

Those who fail find those feelings suddenly dissi-
pate, scattered by the Boemians natural likability.
In game terms, those who fail the save ignore the
Boemian’s Outcast Rating, reacting to the Boemian
as they would to their fellow townspeople. This
effect is similar to the charm person spell, and any
being immune to that spell is unaffected. Individu-
als with a specific reason to hate or dislike the
Boemian, or Boemians as a whole, get a +4 bonus
to their saves and need save only once to be
immune to the effect for the rest of the encounter.

Crafts: The Boemians are, above all, perform-
ers. Virtually anything that mightserve to entertain
can be found at a Boem camp. Indeed, a Boem
camp resembles a carnival more than it does a
caravan. Musical performances, plays, acts of pres-
tidigitation, fortune-telling and more can all be
seen for a small price. The Boemians supplement
these performances by selling a variety of trinkets
and potions. They lack the skill of the Kaldresh in
crafting such items, but they would never tell a
giorgio sucha thing. Indeed, the Boemians are quite
skilled at making a worthless object seem like a
priceless treasure.

The Boemians also offer other, illicit services.
Thievery, smuggling and even kidnappings or a
sassinations can be contracted at Boem camps if
one seeks them out. The Boemians do not advertise
such services, but they have an uncanny knack for
sniffing out and pulling aside interested buyers.

Tribes: The Boem tasque consists of two known
tribes, the Naiat and the Corvara.

The Naiat, like the Equaar, are well known for
their animal handling skills, but where the Equaar
raise animals for sale the Naiat train animals to serve
as entertainment. Bear wrestling is a popular sport at
Naiat camps, and audiences thrill to the tricks per-
formed by Naiat trained dogsand horses. Additionally,
most every Naiat camp contains at least one skilled
illusionist who can craft amazing, if imaginary, vistas
and experiences for giorgio customers.

The Corvara are not particularly adept at any
openly marketable skills. Even their showmanship
is inferior to that of the Naiat, though they try to
compensate for that by offering unsavory diver-
sions such as gambling, drinking, narcotic dens and
cockfighting. They have also perfected the art of
conartistry and seek to bilk giorgio out of every coin
they possibly can. Inevitably, they start to grate on
their hosts beyond the ability of natural Boem
charm to repair, and thus they tend to relocate
much more often than the average Vistani tribe.

 

 
