Manusa

The Manusa are the most exotic and aloof of
the three tasques. Their numbers are far fewer than
those of the other tasques, with perhaps as few as
one caravan representing each tribe. Unlike other
Vistani tasques, they do not market goods or ser-
vices to the giorgio. Seeking out their company is a
tastecbeffor, for they are never found umiless they
wish to be, and they usually wish to bealone. Even
other Vistani find the Manusa impossible to track
down.

When they are encountered, the Manusa are
taciturn and distant. They rarely answer questions,
and when they do, their responses are cryptic.
When they wish to speak, their words are direct
and brief, with no time wasted on pleasantries.
They care little for their appearance and are often
disheveled and dirty as a result. They grow their
hair long, and the men do not trim their beards or
mustaches. The men dress in simple wool robes and
caps, while the women where colorful dresses and
scarves. The Manusa appear older on average than
most Vistani, and more weathered. Their eyes,
however, are bright and piercing

SI

LS

ASS

 

Powers: The known powers of the Manusa are
vast, and it is almost a certainty that they possess
other powers that remain mysterious. The Manusa
appear to be able to manipulate time as if it were a
plaything. While the Kaldresh stand removed from
time, and the Boemians know it as an irresistible
force, the Manusa bend it to suit their whims. They
can see through time as others might through a
window, walk through it as others might through a
doorway. They can even take others with them if
they choose. Time is so malleable to them as to be
almost meaningless.

The Manusa also seem to be able to command
the very Mists themselves, a power at least as
impressive and daunting as their control over time:
They can cause the Mists to rise at will and can use
them to travel to any part of Ravenloft they wish in
an instant.

The nature of these powers is a mystery, and it
may be best that it remains so. The Manusa do not
appear inclined to use their great powers for per-
sonal gain; any others who managed to gain their
secrets would almost certainly lack their restraint

Crafts: The Manusa do not have a craft in the
way the Kaldresh and Boemians do. They do not
