 

interact with the giorgio with any frequency and
seem able to provide for themselves in all respects.
When the Manusa seek out a giorgio, it is almost
certainly because they wish to request a service, not
because they wish to provide one.

Tribes: There are two tribes in the Manusa
tasque: the Canjar and the Zarovan.

All members of the Canjar tribe possess an
innate talent for magic. Every adult has at least one
level in the sorcerer class. In light of their other
powers, the Canjar rarely seek to develop their
sorcery fully; 6th level seems to be the effective
maximum they can achieve. Still, they are ef
tive spellcasters and are believed to have many
arcane spells known only to themselves.

 

 

The Canjar are superb crafters of magic items,
but such items are never available for sale. They
might provide them as payment for services or as
gifts to extraordinary individuals.

Even other Vistani fear the Zarovan, for to the
Zarovan, other Vistani are as ignorant and helpless
as the giorgio. The Zarovan bear their cousins no ill
will, but the Zarovan have an unsettling degree of
power over the other Vistani tribes. The Vistani

 

believe that the Zarovan are the source of all
Vistani magic. All the special abilities that sepa-
rate the Vistani from the giorgio are said to flow
from the Zarovan, and the Zarovan are thought to
be able to cut or redirect that flow as they wish.
Fearful of this power, the Vistani honorand respect
the Zarovan while at the same time trying to avoid
their attention.

Dealing with the Vistani

Above all, when dealing with the Vistani,
characters should keep in mind the various powers
of these nomadic and enigmatic people. Treating
them with respect tends to gain their assistance
more easily than making demands or behaving
rudely. The Vistani hold vast amounts of informa-
tion about the Land of the Mists, but they do not
give out their knowledge haphazardly ot without
cost. Hunters wishing information from the Vistani
about monsters in the area would be well advised to
treat these wanderers with caution and courtesy.

Promises made to Vistani should be consid-
ered one of the most important bondsan individual
can make. Failure to keep a promise not only can
earn the promise-breaker an unpleasant if not
debilitating curse, it can also affect future dealings

 

 

with the Vistani. On the other hand, a record of
promises honored, assistance freely given and cour-
teous conduct can win Vistani allies, if not friends.

As seers of the future, the Vistani can prove
useful if frustrating. Their use of the tarokka deck to
predict future events often provides characters
with useful information that may require some
effortto unravel. The Ravenloft Dungeon Master’s
Guide provides detailed information on Vistani
fortune-telling, particularly as it pertains to the
tarokka.

Vistani can serve as guides through the Mists
for travelers, and characters who are fortunate
enough to secure the services of a Vistana guide
should do everything possible to keep their guide
happy. Additionally, Vistani can carry messages to
distant parts of the Realm of Dread, provided they
feel so inclined.

Characters that try to cheat Vistani or who
attempt to foist off substandard items in trades
quickly learn the folly of their actions and discover
that what affects one small group of Vistani swiftly
spreads from tribe to tribe. The Vistani are a fact of
life in Ravenloft. As such, they can either help or
harm characters, depending on how they are treated.

 

 

 

 
