Ce ia
I understand it all rev,
ST was 4 hsthos an esi ‘hin an uth, One diy, hy ubinn ae attended t he ee

auction of adecsased trader itt 7 OF d. Pe he heirs, lasperate to atthe the Ualiee man 3 depts,
Incod all his exon ee on the Wels Tags feed ity LA hewhe me unt eee chit if

a a, Tike Sir

stone t ht, on =e hs ae eh sie tS scanit,T was consume:

ee such as T ee mi i ofr a oat Meds t br a. small sum, I de ‘.

ar to ‘hin ting the ri id of | 9 ie writings. T sought o G sca ers, fife en he ancient sor
ta Ld last, J So he fat biore rephphes. LS
re ery ine PEL, ae ily, short tab ofa La Peres RL) 1B INET Ul, uh ed
Some en or fe Beis cx ahely aah thon fla lod. rede ade
ag on a sph tlre wet oh tefl neath b he ship hifi ig
are o the? re or 4f astbs,

he | tab rele, stoked f tho flare ae ing entre ue ae thon that J ould ut rest
ants 7 und t ee (fe - slain priestess ani is acie eo fit

ir iby ee ae 0 Te an ele i heared
(aa ered jbo,

the a re Ah atre e alam vb to oa an nee ian usin, ae, tS, a.
ae por st it ious hye Wied would not Fe MB Tate ancient eos ey

the Th arin te cae bat the i ee bas. WEA or
In the. Bade he suas forced to turn to le doo desert raiders, arias 1g Oh ther id Sa Jf 4

“ns share of i any Lregsures ad a Th brand tha es sands ‘ae, ee mags on the
t A ria the. ontrenc we sought: a stone shi Bandi anbal) PLE ie of
aa into the darkness.

seal f fascination grout, TI ae on a ist - the onde Ty besorad pr ime, into the.
Eien Ue by eat th rope I ob Lia? they Gy bait nts da cde
‘or tt

Lu return liter to she ct hres ancient treasurs hor rnsebe 5,
a ie Crapy | (ith this ee ind A or fentorn will soon expord ¢ is ail. 7 ail nape a have this

pla oy, “But I am no lon fe

re oie a chk de ae 5, Dre chad the ber r of
geeeg ini oe, in upon jo sarey, vps lls Wiibes fy, ee ee sof

leat in, TEAMS Ale faa Gemnories rushed it upon me,
Oe ade ee 6 el pe shared a secret hn lOve, hat a ueeuere thon nit es 0
[

Me pods Od S, MA me (A to oe. it forbidden passion in oe Jiore a pact vale oe EEL
i he ne, ae tos, piped ther on turn tle 6 on ae eee

falas bok Pund haf l ed the aur 0 to goin bar in tho ofporly hfe. The, pede tom
eS oC ani ese Car (tif in thes he Datuihe, the thre rough one Life aft or anther.

Fu that time, oho waited for “e or me — tes of the dead.
J hae patirnadl? fo py at fl my ae m-meru, and . ia am yours, fody dy. ieee

:

— Found scratched into a tablet within an empty tomb beneath the burning sands of Sebua

 
