 

avenloft is a blend of Gothic horror and
( adventurous fantasy, and the result is a
world of unique settings and themes.
The purpose of this chapter is to aid
both DMs and players in better under-
standing the world of Ravenloft and how to best
evoke its atmosphere and ideas. Ultimately, ever
thing in this chapter should be considered helpful
guidelines and nothing more. The world of

 

 

Ravenloft is yours to mold as you choose, to evoke
the spirit of Gothic Adventure in the tales you tell
Gothic Dorror
orror is the most basic element of
Ravenloft. The goal of any Ravenloft
f ) adventure should be, at least in part, to
give the players a good, fun, healthy
scare. The Ravenloft setting provides
an abundance of tools with which to scare the
players: a mysterious world, dark deities, undead
monsters, forbidden secrets. It is important to know
how to use these tools to greatest effect. Gothic
horror emphasizes certain elements of fear over
others.

 

Impotence

In Gothic horror, the villains are in control.
The heroes are weak, even insignificant, by com-
parison. To be a hero in a Gothic horror adventure
is to face the incomparable fear of knowing, deep
down, that you cannot possibly prevail. If, after all
is said and done, the hero does manage to vanquish
the villain, she can only look back and marvel at
how providence took her so far.

 

 

In Ravenloft, things are not quite so grim. The
heroes are usually significant powers in their own
right, particularly when working as a group. A
skilled DM has many ways to impose a feeling of
powerlessness, even on a group of powerful heroes.
Even the bravest heroes are certain to feel a sense
of cold dread when they find themselves lost in a
nighttime forest, surrounded by sounds of move-
ment generated by unseen creatures. Trapping the
heroes in unfamiliar circumstances, having mon-
sters attack from concealment, facing them with
foes against whom their favored weapons are use-
... these are all examples of ways to make your
players start to wonder whether they’re really up to
the coming challenges.

Ignorance

The fear of the unknown may be the most
powerful fear. Leaving the players in the dark about
exactly what it is they are facing isan excellent way
to send chills down their backs. Don’t make infor-
mation impossible to acquire, or useless when they
do gain it, because this can sharply detract from the
story. How can the players appreciate the plot if
they knownone of itsdetails? Instead, slowly reveal
important details as the story progresses, and per-
haps arrange a minor encounter or two with the
primary villain while its nature and motivations
are still a mystery. Give your players a chance to
guess about what they are up against; their imagi-
nations might well provide the most frightening
scenarios.

 

 

Isolation

In terms of sheer terror, there is little that can
compare with the realization that you are com-
pletely, utterly alone. When you have no one to
count on but yourself, no one to turn to for support
or assistance, every challenge becomes that much
more disheartening. Isolating the heroes from out-
side help, or even from each other, is an excellent
way to foment a sense of dread.

Isolation need not be physical, though. Social
isolation can be far more frightening. Stranding
the heroes in an unfamiliar society, where they do
not speak the language or understand the customs,
can be just as effective as trapping them on a
deserted island or in an abandoned castle. Even in
a familiar society, such as their hometown, social
isolation can occur. Consider the fable of the Boy
Who Cried Wolf. A young child, through his own
foolishness and mischievousness, alienates the
people of his village and loses their trust. When
danger finally does come chasing after him, right
on the outskirts of his own home, he has absolutely
no one to whom he can turn to for aid. This is
isolation in its purest form.

 

 

Suspense

A sudden shock can be frightening, but it is
not the sort of fear Gothic horror relies on. Gothic
horror prefers to make you afraid before anything
frightening has even appeared, to make you look
for attackers in empty shadows. Try to cultivate a
pervading sense of dread during your adventures,
the idea that something very bad might happen at
