  

 

any moment. Describe the heroes’ surroundings in
crisp detail, emphasizing all the things that might
make them suspicious or concerned. Incorporate

  

all the senses. Mention every little noise, the
faintest scent. When you have the heroes looking
for danger in every direction and at every moment,
they still won’t be prepared when it finally does
appear, and the built-up tension makes the mo-
ment of fear that much sweeter.

Subtlety

Ravenloft does not evoke fear through gore.
Not only is thar taking the easy way out, it usually
doesn’t work. Describing horrifically bloody scenes
in gruesome detail is more likely to elicit gagging
than gasps. It is far better to hint at the horrific and
let the players’ minds fill in the details. In
storytelling, drops of blood are more frightening
than chunks of flesh, rustling leaves are more
frightening than screaming monsters, and a slowly
opening door is more frightening than a blown-in
wall. Keeping things simple is also keeping them
scary.

Gothic Themes

s important as horror is, Gothic tales are
AION about more than fear. Gothic stories
convey certain attitudes and ideas about
the world and the human condition.
DMs should keep these themes in mind
when constructing stories of Gothic adventure

Good Hgainst Evil

In Gothic stories, there is Good and there is
Evil. Morality is not relative. It does not bend and
twist to accommodate the situation. Right is right
and wrong is wrong, and you had better choose a
side before the wrong side chooses you.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This is not to say that Gothic worlds are worlds
of black and white. Shades of gray are plentiful, but
these are the result of human perception and de-
ception. It may sometimes be hard to know exactly
what is right and what is wrong, and evil often tries
very hard to disguise itself as good, but our human
inability to correctly assess a situation does not free
us from the consequences of our actions. A witch-
hunter seeking to stamp out the evil of hags who,
blinded by hubris, puts innocents to the torch must
still pay the price for her deeds, even if she believes
her actions are just.

   

ore ee ora

 

    

Confusing matters even more is that the true
morality of the world may not be identical to the
morality we are raised with and taught to adhere to.
What man says ismoral may not be moral, and here
the fear of the unknown comes into play. The idea
that there may be hard, unchanging rules about
what is good and what is evil, and that we are
expected to adhere to those rules, but that we may
not know for certain what those rules are is a
terrifying concept. This concept is brought to life
in Ravenloft through the Dark Powers. These
unknown and unknowable forces sit in judgment
over the inhabitants of the Land of Mists but never
make any overt effort to reveal their motivations or
standards for judgment. Only through the punish-
ments they dole out after the fact do the people of
Ravenloft come to know what displeases them, and
these punishments are fearfully inconsistent. The
very nature of morality in Ravenloft is constructed
to breed fear.

Punishment and Reward

In Gothic stories, people tend to get what they
deserve when all is said and done. In the end, evil
is destroyed and goodness prevails. Innocents may
suffer or even die along the way, but we can be more
or less certain that they receive the rewards they
deserve in the next life.

One important thing of note in Gothic tales is
that justice delayed is far from being justice denied.
Evil may thrive for a long period of time, but it gets
what it deserves eventually. It may take years,
decades or even generations. A son may even have
to bear the punishments earned by his father. How
can such a state of affairs be just?

The Persistence of Evil: The actions of the
past have bearing on the present. Evil acts commit-
ted in the past, even before living memory, can act
as seeds of chaos that might not germinate until far
in the future. Evil does not end until justice is done,
and so evil carries on through years and through
generations. A father who commits evil and goes
unpunished bequeaths his villainy to his son, who
certainly shows signs of his father’s wickedness. He
may not be doomed if he seeks out repentance and
performs the appropriate penitence, but if he re-
fuses to acknowledge that responsibility he suffers
for it... or his children will.

Fitting Justice: Unyielding as the forces of
judgment might be, they are not without a certain
macabre sense of irony. The punishments a person
receives for his actions always fit the crime. An

 

  
