_ ——

 

vcemsivelysprond sculpronmigheHadibie ends
scarred and rendered useless. A wealthy woman
who refuses to give aid to a dying beggar might find
herself penniless before too lang. Pethare the most
fitting punishment in Ravenloft is the murderer
who finds himself haunted by the ghost of his
victim.

Che Unkindness of Nature

Nature is not your friend. It is no one’s friend.
It does as it wants, and its wants often conflict with
those of the needy. Rain seems to fall when the sun
is needed. The sun disappears behind the clouds
when light is necessary. The wind blows when
calmness is vital. Nature does not have it in for you
It simply doesn’t care about you.

Passion

Gothic stories are tales of strong, deeply felt
emotion. Villains, in particular, are often vessels of
barely contained passions. Rage, lust, envy, obses-
sion — all the darker aspects of human feeling find
their expression in the Gothic milieu. Less sinister
emotions have their place in Gothic adventure as
well. Love, in particular, often runs deep.

Pride

Of special note is pride. Hubris is known as the
deadliest sin, and in Gothie stories, it certainly
seems to cause the most trouble. Man’s pride in his
own abilities and accomplishments is often the
downfall of him and everything he holds dear. The
scientist who tampers with the laws of nature, the
sinner who believes himself beyond the reach of
the deities, the woman so convinced of her virtue
that she believes herself above all temptation. .. all
them build the foundations of their own destruc-
tion.

Gothic Hdventure

avenloft is a world of both the Gothic
and the fantastic. Many of the elements
f ') of a typical fantasy campaign can be
found in Ravenloft, but these elements
are often twisted or altered to better suit
the Gothic themes of the world. Even though they
are changed, they still play an important part in
Ravenloft campaigns. Following are examples of
how fantasy elements blend with the Gothic.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Combat

Combat is an integral part of most fantasy
stoties, and it plays an important role in Ravenloft
as well. Ravenloft is well stocked with foes to fight
and monsters toslay. The good folk of the Realm of
Dread know few more dramatic ways to be a hero
than to face down a creature of the night, and
combat should be a frequently featured part of
Ravenloft adventures.

Swords Against Firearms: Gothic stories usu-
ally take place ina much more technologically and
socially advanced milieu than fantasy stories do.
Ravenloft strikes a balance between the two, blend-
ing technological and social aspects of both genres.
Asa result, the world of Ravenloft contains tech-
nology of a slightly higher level than the typical
fantasy world, including firearms. One would e
pect that the availability of firearms would mean
the end of swords, bows and other standard fantasy
weapons, but this is not the case in Ravenloft. The
setting makes this distinction for several reasons.
The domains of Ravenloft possess differing levels
of technology, and firearms are unavailable in
many lands. Even when a domain does possess
sufficient technology to produce firearms, their
availability is often restricted by the rulers of the
domain, who fear the leveling power firearms have
on the battlefield. The most important Teason,
however, is that firearms are expensive and unre
able. Gunpowder is dangerous to mix and to carry
and is easily ruined by moisture, and even the most
powerfully enchanted firearm is useless without it.
Only magical weapons can harm many of the land’s
most dangerous creatures, and few adventurers
trust a magic firearm where a magic bow will do. For
these reasons, swords, bows and other fantasy weap-
ons should always be prominent in Ravenloft
combat, with firearms in the background if at all
present.

Wits Against Might: While combat has its
place in Ravenloft campaigns, a hack-and-slash
style of adventuring is ultimately doomed to fail-
ure. The reason is, quite simply, that the monsters
are usually more powerful than the heroes, not
simply in terms of sheer might, but also in terms of
influence and awareness. While fighting first and
asking questions later can be effective against a
villain’s minions, once the heroes reach the power
behind the scenes they are likely to find their
weapons and tactics to be ineffectual.

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
