 

 

This isnot to say that the monsters in Ravenloft
are invulnerable. It merely means that more subtle
methods are often required to defeat them. Heroes
in Ravenloft should seek to understand their foes
so that they may better destroy them. Every villain
or monster in Ravenloft has a weakness, and gen-
erally the more powerful the creature, the more
crippling their weaknesses are once exposed. He-
roes should strive to learn of their foes’ origins,
motivations, and relationships, for it is in discover-
ing these that their foes’ weaknesses are most likely
to be uncovered.

Magic

Magic is another staple of fantasy settings, and
it has its place in Ravenloft. However, magic is
only occasionally a major element in the Land of
Mists. It usually takes a subtle, supporting role in
Ravenloft adventures, furthering the story without
dominating it. Below are some examples of how
magic is thematically different in Ravenloft

 

The Rarity of Magic: Magic is encountered
far less in Ravenloft than it is in the typical fantasy
campaign. Spellcasters are extremely rare and guard
their secrets jealously. Schools of magic are almost
unheard of, and those that exist are usually the
tools or recruiting grounds of insular groups wary of
outsiders. Magic items are difficult to come by, and
those of even the slightest enchantment usually
have long histories. Indeed, magic is rare enough in
the Land of Mists that some even insist that it is
nothing more than a superstition. They are wrong,
of course, but most inhabitants of Ravenloft never
knowingly encounter anything magical in their
lifetimes. Adventurers have an easier time locating
magic than the avera
sters they face hoard much of it, but even they
should find it rare enough that its discovery is a
truly wondrous event

The Flavor of Magic: Magic in Ravenloft is

usually of a darker nature than it is in most fantasy

ye commoner, since the mon

 

 

settings. Most magic is not inherently evil in

Ravenloft (although some is). However, those who

 

are desperate to learn the secrets of magic often
commit evil acts to further their understanding
Magic can be difficult to obtain in Ravenloft, so
spellcasters seeking quick roads to power turn to

 

such sources as liches, fiends or evil artifacts to
satisfy their longing. Even spellcasters who avoid
the temptations of evil must often make great
personal sacrifices to further their arcane knowl-
edge. Spellcasters in Ravenloft tend to be obsessed
