 

at best and wicked at worst, and these eee
color magic as a whole.

The Fear of Magic: The rarity and darker tone
of magic in Ravenloft combine to make it some-
thing alien and unknown. Although most of the
people of Ravenloft never encounter magic them-
selves, this does not keep them from fearing its
influence. Anyone known to bea wizard or sorcerer
in Ravenloft should expect to encounter suspicion,
fear and perhaps even hatred from those encoun-
tered. Because of this fear, most spellcasters keep
their abilities hidden as best they can.

 

Realm Magic Ratings: Because of magic’s
rarity, in some realms magic does not work as well
as in others, while in other realms magical energy
is literally exploding. This suppression and en-
hancement of magical energies make spellcaster’s
lives far more difficult than in an average fantasy
campaign. Just when a wizard needs a particular
higher level spell, he may find that he doesn’t have
access to it — for some inexplicable reason. If he
travels elsewhere, the same spell might take him
half as long to learn and be far faster and easier to
st than he ever has before. Such vagaries make
wizards, sorcerers and divine spellcasters far more
cautious than they might be otherwise. It’s unwise
to show others your power, then lack a magical
means of escape ina pinch.

  

Exploration

Adventure stories often center around jour-
neys. The world is usually wide and open, and the
characters often travel to new places with every
adventure. Ravenloft is a much smaller world than
that of most fantasy settings, and freedom of move-
ment within it is much more restrictive, but the
Land of Mists still abounds with plenty of opportu-
nities for quests and exploration.

Shifting Terrain: One of the hallmarks of the
Ravenloft world is the malleability of the terrain.
The world is an immense construct, and its makers,
the Dark Powers, can reshape and rearrange the
components as they see fit. Even those parts that
are relatively stable, such as the Core, are given to
small fluctuations in dimension and geography. As
aresult, Ravenloft always provides new opportuni-
ties for exploration and discovery, as what is there
today may be overtaken by something new tomor-
row.

 

Unexpected Journeys: The Mists of Ravenloft
paradoxically provide both a barrier and an aid to
travel. They surround the Core, clusters and Is-

lands of Terror, providing a daunting obstacle to
would-be explorers, yet those who brave their
roiling tendrils can find themselves emerging in
unheard of and undreamt of lands. Furthermore,
the animated nature of the Mists means that ad-
venturers might find themselves exploring new
regions without even intending to! The Mists can
rise up anywhere, anytime, and where one ends up
when they recede once more is anyone's guess.

Exotic Locales: The nature of Ravenloft is
such that domains of widely differing geography
and culture can be found in relatively close prox-
imity to each other. Even the Core, with mostly
European geography and inhabitants, has a few
areas that defy normal classification. The shifting
seas of the Core also provide unique opportunities
for adventures. Beyond the Core, each cluster and
island provides a wholly new experience for adven-
turers. The Land of Mists may be limited in size, but
it is nearly infinite in scope.

fantasy as a Tool

Asan be seen above, fantastic elements must
often be moderated when added to a Gothic set-
ting. However, fantastic elements can, if used
properly, greatly enhance the opportunities for
Gothic storytelling. Some examples of how to use
fantastic elements to enhance the Gothic are given
below.

The Inexplicable: Almost all Gothic tales
contain elements that defy conventional explana-
tion. How a vampire or a ghost can exist is a
question never answered in a Gothic story. That
they exist is what matters, and the impossibility of
explaining them only adds to the horror of their
existence. Gothic fantasy emphasizes the inexpli-
cable to an even greater degree. In a land where
magic is possible, the world floats ina sea of mists,
and shadowy, godlike figures can bend the rules of
the world on a whim, anything can happen. What
matters in Ravenloft is not whether events are
logical, but whether they are effective in telling a
story and crafting a horrific atmosphere. Imagine a
group of adventurers entering a noisy, crowded
tavern. They sit down at a table and talk quietly
among themselves, waiting for the barmaid to
serve them. A few moments later, they suddenly
notice how quiet the tavern has become and look
around, only to find that everyone has disappeared.
Not only are the people gone, they see no sign that
anyone has been there for days. Were they an
illusion? Ghosts? Were they spirited away by a

 
