 

  
    

Foe ae

powerful entity? Were the adventurers themselves
whisked away? The knowledge that the world does
not obey any unalterable rules can make Gothic
fantasy adventuring that much more terrifying.

The Inhuman: A common element of fantasy
settings is the existence of a variety of intelligent
humanoid races, each with its own cultures and
personalities. This state of affairs provides Gothic
storytellers with a unique environment in which to
emphasize the isolation of being trapped in an alien
society. The races of Ravenloft are far more insular
and distrustful of oursiders than those of other
worlds. When the adventurers find themselves
immersed in a culture where the people not only
sound and act very differently but look and think
very differently, theiranxiety and loneliness should
be that much greater.

The Invasive: Magic can affect people in very
intimate, unsettling ways. It can take over your
mind, weaken your body and twist your shape into
something altogether inhuman. Thatsomeone can
control you in such powerful ways should be fright-
ening to even think about, and much, much more
frightening to actually witnes:

Che Morld of Ravenloft

  

 

he world of Ravenloft is much like our own,
at least in the basic ways. People awaken in
the moming, work for their wage, retumn
8 home to be with their families and enjoy
some diversions, sleep soundly during the
night and awaken again the next moming. Despite
appearances, it is nota world overwhelmed by countless
horrors. The horrors exist, but the average persons are
unaffected by them. If they were, they would hardly be
considered as horrifying. It is the relative normality of
daily life in Ravenloft that makes the abnormal seem so
terrifying, and the desire to retum to normality often
provides heroes with motivation to fight the darkness.

Che Natural (orld

Ravenloft is a beautiful land. The forests are
lush and gorgeous. The sky is a brilliant, unspoiled
blue. The mountains are awe inspiring in their
majesty. The rivers are clean and refreshing, and
the air is crisp and sweet. Ravenloft is a land worth
living in. It is a land worth fighting for. Don’t
surrender it to the night.

 

 

 

Relationships
Just as valuable as the land itself are the people
within it. Yes, many of them are ignorant and cowardly,

2

ng

ae aes octet ee

oN.

 

   

but just as many are brave and helpful. Communities in
Ravenloft are often close knit and the residents are
dedicated to each other. They are largely good people
who deserve a world better than the one they have no
choice but to live in. Player characters should have the
opportunity to forge true friendships and meaningful
romances, because it is in these relationships that heroes
find strength to fight on.

Reroism in Ravenloft

Why deny it: being a hero in Ravenloft is hard.
The entire world seems focused on empowering evil
and hampering goodness. Leading life of heroism is
leadinga life of difficulty. This section focuses on the
unique struggles heroes in Ravenloft face.

Purity

Heroes in Ravenloft walk a dangerous road.
Fighting evil requires encountering evil, and evil
always seeks to gain sway over those it encounters.
Villainy takes every opportunity to foment doubt
and weaken the resolve of heroes, and those who
would stay heroes must fight to keep their hearts
pure and their minds focused.

Would-be heroes in Ravenloft would also do
well to keep the proper motivations in mind. A
good deed done with selfish motivation is not a
good deed done, and eventually such duplicity
comes back to haunt the “hero.” Remember, in
Ravenloft everyone reaps what he sows eventually.

 

Sacrifice

Beinga hero in Ravenloft means making hard
choices. What do you do when a friend is infected
with lycanthropy? When allover is made the undead
slave of a vampire lord? Do you seek out a cure that
may not exist, though it means allowing another
monster to walk the night in the meantime? Do you
destroy the victim, foregoing any hope or possibil-
ity of saving innocent lives? Hard decisions are
plentiful in the Land of Mists, and it takes a strong
will to withstand having to make them.

 

 

Determination

Gothic adventurers should always expect one
more monster to slay. Evil is too primal to be
eradicated, and thus a hero’s struggle never ends,
except in death or surrender. Of the two possibili-
ties, surrender certainly seems more attractive.
Why continue to fight when evil remains as pow-
erful as ever? What does removing a single stone
from a mountain accomplish?

 

 

 
