  

 

thing quite as horrifying as a villain who mak
heroine think to herself, “That could have been
me... and it still could be.”

The villain should recognize these common
bonds as readily as the heroine. The villain might
grow to hate the heroine all the more for remaining
pure where the villain has faltered, or he might
relish the opportunity to bring his same mistakes
out in another, reinforcing the “superiority” of the
path he has chosen.

Dynamism

Villains in Ravenloft should not be static
characters. They should live and breathe just as
much as the player characters do. A villain in
Ravenloft should have a detailed background,
motivation, behaviors and methods. They should
be individuals in their own right.

Justas the heroes change and grow, so must the
villains. Villains should learn from their mistakes
and try new ideas when the old ones fail. A villain
who never changes and never improves is a boring
villain who is quickly surpassed by the heroes

Power

Villains in Ravenloft act from a position of
strength. It need not be purely physical strength; a
villain with great wealth or lofty status can com-
mand power that far outstrips his physical abilities.
Whatever the nature of the villain’s power, the
villain should wield enough of it to pose a serious
challenge to an entire group of heroes.

Insidiousness

The wicked of Ravenloft know many ways to
hurt someone, and a villain uses them all. If the
hero is too strong to overcome physically, attack
her mind. Drain her finances. Deprive her of her
possessions. Destroy her home. If none of these is
possible, go after her family or friends. If these too
are guarded, attack total innocents until she is
forced to come out into the open. Villains in
Ravenloft are often monsters to the core, and there
is no act so evil that it is beyond them. Heroes
should usually have a chance to thwart a villain’s
machinations, but the very attempts should rein-
force just how diabolical the villain can be.

 

 

Recommended References
Recommended Reading

Bronté, Emily. Wuthering Heights.

Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan. Selected tales, in-
cluding “The Hound of the Baskervilles.”

Endore, Guy. The Werewolf of Paris.

Hodgson, William Hope. Selected tales, in-
cluding Carnacki the Ghost Finder stories.

Howard, Robert E. The Savage Tales of Solomon
Kane.

Hugo, Victor. The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

Jackson, Shirley. The Haunting of Hill House
and “The Lottery.”

Jacobs, W. W. “The Monkey’s Paw.”

James, Henry. Selected tales, including The
Turn of the Screw.

James, M. R. Ghost Stories of an Antiquary.

King, Stephen. Selected tales, including Cycle
of the Werewolf, The Dark Half, and Salem’s Lot:

Le Fanu, J. Sheridan. Selected tales, including
“Carmilla” and “Green Tea.”

Leroux, Gaston. Phantom of the Opera

Lewis, Matthew Gregory. Selected tales, in-
cluding The Castle Specter and The Monk.

Lovecraft, H. P. Selected tales, including “The
Rats in the Walls” and The Case of Charles Dexter
Ward.

Maturin, Charles. Melmoth the Wanderer.

Poe, Edgar Allan. Selected works, including
“The Fall of the House of Usher” and “The Raven.”

Polidori, John. “The Vampyre.”

Radcliffe, Ann. The Mysteries of Udolpho.

Shelley, Mary. Frankenstein.

Stevenson, Robert Lewis. Selected tales, in-
cluding “The Body Snatcher” and The Strange Case
of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.

Stoker, Bram. Selected tales, including “The
Judge’s House,” Dracula, and The Jewel of Seven
Stars

Walpole, Horace. The Castle of Otranto.

Wells, H. G. The Invisible Man and The Island
of Dr. Moreau.

Wilde, Oscar. The Picture of Dorian Gray.

Yarbro, Chelsea Quinn. The Godforsaken.

 

oe ne
