INTRODUCTION:

This is the Duxctons & Daacons* Roleplaying Game, the game
that defines the genre and has set the standard for fantasy role-
playing for more than 30 years.

Specifically, this is. the Monster Manual. This book contains|
entries for hundreds of creatures, both hostile and benign, for use)
lin Duncgoxs & Daacons adventures. This book, the Player's Hand:
book, and the Dungeon Master's Guide comprise the core rules for,

the D&D* game.

This introduction explains how to read each creature's write- up.|
Inoften refers to the Glossary, located in Chapter 7 at the back of
this book (starting on page 305), for more details on attack forms
and the special qualities associated with monsters

A list of monsters organized by Challenge Rating appears on
pages 318 and 319 to make it easy for the Dungeon Master to tailor
encounters to the party level of the player characters.

Each monster description is organized in the same general format,
as outlined below, For complete information about the character-
istics of monsters, consult Chapter 7: Glossary (starting on page
305), the Player's Handbook, or the Dungeon Master's Guide.

STATISTICS BLOCK
‘This portion of a monster description contains basic game infor-
mation on the creature.

Name
This is the name by which the creature is generally known. The
descriptive text may provide other names,

Size and Type

This line describes the creature's size (Huge, for example), Size cat-
egories are defined in the Glossary. A size modifier applies to the
creature's Armor Class (AC) and attack bonus, as well as to certain.
skills, A creature's size also determines how far it can reach to,
make a melee attack and how much space it occupies in.a fight)
(see Space/Reach, below).

The size and type line continues with the creature's type (giant,
for example), Type determines hosy magic affects a creature; for

example, the hold animal spell affects only creatures of the animal,

type. Type determines certain features, such as Hit Dice size, base |

attack bonus, base saving throw bonuses, and skill points. For|

quick reference, the Glossary gives a full description of the fea-|
|tures and traits of each type and subtype.

Hit Dice
This line gives the creatures number and type of Hit Dice, and
lists any bonus hit points_A parenthetical note gives the average,
hit points for a creature of the indicated number of Hit Dice.

A creature’ Hit Dice total is also treated as its level for deter-
mining how spells affect the creature, its rate.of natural healing,
and its maximum ranks in a skill.

Initiative
This line gives the creature's modifier on initiative checks.

Speed
{This line gives the creature's tactical speed on land (the amount of ,
jdistance it can cover in one move action). If the creature wears
armor that reduces its speed, the creature's base land speed follows.
If the creature has other modes of movement, these are. given.
after (or in place of) the land speed. Unless nated otherwise,
modes of movement are natural (not magical). See the Glossary for
information on movement modes.

Armor Class
The Armor Class line gives the creature's AC for normal combat,
and includes a parenthetical mention of the modifiers contribut-
ing to it (usually size, Dexterity, and natural armor), The creature's
touch and flat-footed ACs follow the combat-ready AC,

A creature's armor proficiencies (if it has any) depend on its.
type, but in general a creature is automatically proficient. with any,
kind of armor it is described as wearing (light, medium, or heavy),
and with all lighter kinds of armor.

Base Attack/Grapple
The number before the slash on this line is the creature's base
attack bonus (before any modifiers are applied), The DM usually
wont need this number, burit.can be handy sometimes, especially
if the creature has the Power Attack or Combat Expertise feats,
‘The number after the slash is the creature's grapple bonus, which

 

continued from page 4

{Goblinoid): bugbear, goblin, hobgoblin

Humanoid: bugbear, dwarf, elf, githyanki, githzerai, gnoll, gnome,
goblin, halfling, hobgoblin, kobold, lizardfolk, locathah, merfolk, orc,
troglodyte.

{Incorporeal): allip, ghost, shadow, spectre, wraith,

(Lawful): inevitable

Magical Beast: ankheg, aranea, basilisk, behir, bulette, blink dog,
chimera, cockatrice, darkmantle, digester, displacer beast, dragonne,
ethereal marauder, fiendish dire rat, frost worm, giant eagle, giant owl,
girallon, gorgon, gray render, griffon, hellwasp swarm, hippogriff, hydras,
kraken, krenshar, lamia, lammasu, manticore, owlbear, pegasus, phase
spider, purple worm, remorhaz, roper, shocker lizard, sea cat, sphinxes,
spider eater, stirge, tarrasque, unicorn, winter wolf, worg, yrthak.

Monstrous Humanoid: centaur, derro, doppelganger, gargoyle, grim-
lock, hags, harpy, kuo-toa, medusa, minotaur, sahuagin, yuan-ti

Ooze: black pudding, gelatinous cube, gray ooze, ochre jelly.

Outsider: ravid.

Outsider (Air): air mephit, arrowhawk, djinni, dust mephit, ice mephit.

Outsider (Chaotic}: chaos beast, demons, eladrins, howler, lillend,
slaadi, titan.

Outsider (Evil): achaierai, barghest, demons, devils, hell hound,

 

howler, night hag, nightmare, rakshasa, shadow mastiff, vargouille, wil,
yeth hound.

Outsider (Earth): earth mephit, salt mephit, xorn

Outsider (Fire): azer, efreeti, hell hound, fire mephit, magma mephit
steam mephit, rast, salamanders.

Outsider (Good): angels, archons, eladrins, guardinals, lillend, titan.

Outsider (Lawful): achaierai, archons, barghest, devils, formians, hell
hound, rakshasa, xill

Outsider (Native): aasimar, couatl, janni, tiefling, rakshasa, triton

Outsider (Water): ooze mephit, water mephit, tojanidas, triton,

Plant: assassin vine, phantom fungus, shambling mound, shrieker,
tendriculos, treant, violet fungus.

(Reptilian): kobold, lizardfolk, troglodyte.

(Shapechanger): aranea, barghest, doppelganger, lycanthropes,
mimic, phasm.

Undead: allip, bodak, devourer, ghast, ghost, ghoul, lich, mohrg,
mummy, nightshades, shadow, skeletons, spectre, vampire, vampire
spawn, wight, wraith, zombie.

Vermin: centipede swarm, giant insects, locust swarm, monstrous
centipedes, monstrous scorpions, monstrous spiders, spider swarm.

(Water): black dragon, bronze dragon, ooze mephit, water mephit.

 

 

 
