 

is used when the creature makes.a grapple attack or when someone
tries to grapple the creature, The grapple bonus includes all modi-
fiers that apply to the creature’ grapple checks (base attack bonus,
Strength modifier, special size modifier, and any other applicable
modifier, such as a racial bonus on grapple checks). }

Attack 4
(This line shows the single attack the creature makes with an attack |
laction. In most cases, this is also the attack the creature uses when |
-making.an attack of opportunity.as well. The attack line provides |
ithe weapon used (natural or manufactured), attack bonus, and
{form of attack (melee or ranged). The attack bonus given includes
.modifications for size and Strength (for melee attacks) or Dexter

ity (for ranged attacks). A creature with the Weapon Finesse fear
can use its Dexterity modifier on melee attacks.

If the creature uses natural attacks, the natural weapon given
jhere is the creature's primary natural weapon (see the Glossary).
}—Ifthe creature has several different weapons at its disposal, the |

jalternatives are shown, with each different attack separated bythe)

\svord “or” }

Accreature can use one of its secondary natural weapons (see the
Glossary) when making an attack action, but if ir does it takes an
attack penalty, as noted in the Full Attack section below,

The damage that each attack deals is noted parenthetically.
Damage from an attack is always at least 1 point, even if a subtrac-
tion from a die roll reduces the result to.0.or lower.

Full Attack
{This line shows all the physical attacks the creature makes when it
uuses a full-round action to make a full attack. It gives the number of
jattacks along with the weapon, attack bonus,and form of amack (melee
\orranged). The first entry is for the creature's primary.weapon, with an
jattack bonus including modifications for size and Suength (for melee
sattacks) or Dexterity (for ranged attacks). A creature with the Weapon
Finesse feat. can use its Dexterity modifier.on melee attacks.

The remaining weapons are secondary, and attacks with them
are made swith a5 penalty to the attack roll, no matter how many.
there are. Crearures with the Multiattack feat (see page 304) take,
only a2 penalty on secondary attacks. = |

The damage that each attack deals is noted parenthetically. |
Damage from an attack is always at least 1 point, even if a subtrac-,
tion from a die roll reduces the result to 0 or lower.

A creature's primary attack damage includes its full Strength
modifier (1-1/2 times its Strength bonus if the attack is with the
creature's sole natural weapon) and is given first, Secondary
attacks add only 1/2 the creature's Strength bonus and are given
second in the parentheses,

If any attacks also have some special effect other than damage,
(poison, disease, energy drain, and so forth), that information is,
given here. _ 1

Unless noted otherwise, creatures using natural weapons deal)

|double damage on critical hits.

_ Manufactured Weapons; Creatures that use swords, bows,
[spears, and the like follow the same rules as characters do, The
bonus for attacks with two-handed weapons is 1-1/2 times the
creature's Strength modifier (if it is a bonus), and is given first. Off-,
hand weapons add only 1/2 the Strength bonus and are. given,
second in the parentheses.

Space/Reach

This line describes how much space the creature.takes up.on.the,
bartle grid and thereby needs to fight effectively, as well as how.
close it has to be to threaten an opponent, The number before the
slash is the creature's space, or how many feet one side of the crea-
Jture occupies (refer to the Dungeon Master's Guide for additional ,
idetails), For example,.a creature with aspace of 15 feet occupies a_
{3-square-by-3-square space on the battle grid. The number after
the slash is the creature's natural reach. If the creature has excep-
tional reach due to a weapon, tentacle, or the like, the extended,
reach and its source are noted in parentheses atthe end of the line.

Special Attacks and Special Qualities

Many creatures have unusual abilities, which can include special
attack forms, resistance or vulnerability to certain types of;
jdamage, and enhanced senses, among others. A monster entry.|
breaks these abilities into special attacks and special qualities. The}
latter caregory includes defenses, vulnerabilities, and other special |
abilities that are not modes of attack. A special ability is either)
extraordinary (Ex), spell-like (Sp), or supernatural (Su). See.the}
Glossary for definitions of special abilities, Additional informa-|
tion (when needed) is provided in the creature's descriptive text.

When a special ability allows a saving throw, the kind of save
and the save DC is noted in the descriptive text. Most saving
throws against special abilities have DCs calculated as follows; 10
+ 1/2 the attacker's racial Hit Dice + the relevant ability modifier
The save DC is given in the creature's description along with the
ability on which the DC is based.

Saves

This line gives the creature's Fortitude, Reflex, and Will save modifiers.

Abilities

This line lists the creature's ability scores, in the customary order:
Str, Dex, Con, Int, Wis, Cha. Except where noted otherwise, each

 

 

WHY A REVISION?

The new Dunceons & Deacons game debuted in 2000. In the three years
since the d20 game system energized the RPG industry, we've gathered
tons of data on how the game is being played. We consider D&D to be
a living game that constantly evolves as it is played, Using the gathered
feedback, we've retooled the game from the ground up and incorpo-
rated everyone's suggestions to improve the game and this product.

If this is your first experience with D&D, we welcome you to a
wonderful world of adventure and imagination, If you played the
prior version of this book, rest assured that this revision is a testa-
ment to our dedication to continuous product improvement and
innovation. We've updated errata, clarified rules, polished the pres-
entation, and made the game better than it was. This is an upgrade
of the 420 System, not a new edition of the game. This revision is
compatible with existing products, and these products can be used
with the revision with only minor adjustments.

What's new in the revised Monster Manual? The entire book has been

polished and refined, all in response to your feedback and to reflect the
way the game Is actually being played. We've reorganized the group
monster entries into easier-to-use, single-entry formats. New monsters
have been added to this larger book. Advanced versions of some
monsters have been included to challenge higher-level characters. New
monster feats have been added, and all monster abilities are detailed in
the glossary for easy reference. Monsters that can be used as player
characters have level adjustments and other information to expedite
such play, and we've reworked all monsters so that they gain feats and
skills the same way that player characters do. We've added extensive
information on how to advance, customize, and design monsters. And
there are other improvernents throughout, such as first-glance descrip-
tions of monsters, typical spell lists for spelicasting monsters, addi-
tional statistics to speed up play (including grapple bonus and full
attack routines), and ready-to-play entries for all monster types.

Take a look, play the game. We think you'll like how everything
turned out.
