creature is assumed to have the standard array.of ability scores
before racial adjustments (all 11s and 10s), To determine any crea-
ture’s racial ability adjustments, subtract 10 from any_even-num-
bered ability score and subtract 11 from any odd-numbered score.
(Exceptions are noted in the Combat section of a creature's descrip:
tive text.) Humanoid warriors are generally builrusing the nonelite ,
array: 13, 12, 14, 10, 9,8. Advanced creatures (such as the hound.
\archon hero) are built using the elite array: 15, 14, 13, 12,108.)
Most abilities work as described in Chapter 1 of the Player's)
Handbook, with exceptions given below. J
Strength: As noted on page 162 of the Player's Handbook, quad- |
\rupeds can carry heavier loads than bipeds can, Any creature with
_four or more motive limbs can carry.a load as a quadruped, even if
itdoes not necessarily use all the limbs at once. For example, drag-
ons catry loads as quadrupeds.

Intelligence: A creature can speak all the languages mentioned
in its description, plus one additional language per point of Intel-
ligence bonus, Any creature with an Intelligence score of 3.0r}

\higher understands at least one language (Common, unless noted |
otherwise). +

Nonabilities; Some creatures lack certain ability scores. These
creatures do not haye an ability score of Q—they lack the ability
altogether. The modifier for a nonability is +0. Other effects of
nonabilities are detailed in the Glossary.

Skills
This line gives the creature's skills, along with each skill’s modifier
(including adjustments for ability scores, armor.check penalties,
and any bonuses from feats or racial traits). All listed skills are
class skills, unless the creature has a character class (noted in the
jentry), A creature's type and Intelligence score determine the
number of skill points it has.
The Skills section of the creature's description recaps racial
{bonuses and other adjustments to skill modifiers for the sake of
clarity; these bonuses should not be added to the listed skill mod-
ifiers, An asterisk (*) beside the relevant score and in the Skills sec-
tion of the descriptive text indicates a conditional adjustment, one.
that applies only in certain situations (for instance, a gargoyle gets |
an additional +8 bonus on Hide checks when it is.concealed |
against a background of worked stone) +
Natural Tendencies; Some creatures simply aren't made for,

certain types of physical activity. Elephants, despite their great
Strength scores, are terrible at jumping. Giant crocodiles, despite
their high Strength scores, don't. climb well. Horses can't walk
tightropes, Ifit seems clear to you that a particular creature simply
is not made for a particular physical activity, you.can say that the
creature takes a—8 penalty on skill checks that defy its narural ren-
_dencies, In extreme circumstances (a porpoise attempting a Climb
icheck, for instance) you can rule thatthe creature fails the check
automatically.

Feats
The line gives the creature's feats. A monster gains feats just as a
character does—one for its first Hit Die, a second feat if it has at
least 3 HD, and an additional feat for every additional 3 HD. (For
example, a 9 HD creature is entitled to four feats.)
Sometimes a creature has one or more bonus feats, marked with
a superscript B (*), Creatures often do not have the prerequisites
for a bonus fear, If this is so, the creature can still use the feat. If
you wish to customize the creature with new feats, you.can reas-
\sign its other feats, bur not its bonus feats. A creature. cannot have
}a-feat.that is nota bonus feat unless it has. the feat's prerequisites.
Environment
This line gives.a.type of climate and terrain where the creature is.
typically found. This describes a tendency, but is not exclusionary, |
A great. wyrm gold dragon, for instance, has an environment entry,

of warm plains, but could also be encountered underground, in|
cold hills, or even on another plane of existence, See Chapter 3.0f|
the Dungeon Master's Guide for more on terrain types and climate. |

Organization
{This line describes the kinds of groups the creature might form. A
[range of numbers in.parentheses indicates how many combat-
ready adults are in each type of group. Many. groups also have a
number of noncombatants, expressed as a percentage of the fight-,
_ing population. Noncombatants can include young, the infirm,,
slaves, or other individuals who are not inclined to fight. A crea-,
ture’s Society section may include more details on noncombatants.
If the organization line contains the term “domesticated,’ the
creature is generally found only in the company.of other crea-,
tures, whom it serves in some capacity, - |

Challenge Rating

{This shows the average level of a party of adventurers for which,
yone creature would make an encounter of moderate difficulty. .

{Assume a party of four fresh characters (full hit points, full spells,
and equipment appropriate to their levels). Given reasonable luck,
the party should be able to win the encounter with some damage
but no casualties. For more information about Challenge Ratings,
see pages 36 and 48 of the Dungeon Master's Guide,

Treasure

This line reflects how much wealth the creature.owns and refers |
jto Table 3-5; Treasure on page 52 of the Dungeon Master's Guide, In}
most cases, a creature keeps valuables in its home or lair. and has,
no treasure with it when it travels. Intelligent creatures that own
useful, portable treasure (such as magic items) tend to carry and)
use these, leaving bulky items at home. See the glossary for more,
details on using the Treasure line of each monster entry.

Alignment
This line gives the alignment that the creature is most likely 10
have, Every entry includes » qualifier that indicates how broadly
that alignment applies to the species as a whole. See the Glossary
for details.

Advancement

This book usually describes only the most commonly encoun-
tered version of a creature (though some entries for advanced
monsters can be found). The advancement line shows how. rough
a creature can get, in terms of extra Hit Dice. (This is not an
absolute limit, but exceptions are extremely rare.) Often, intelli-
gent creatures advance by gaining a level in a character class
instead of just gaining a new Hit Die.

Level Adjustment

This line is included in the entries of creatures suitable for use as
player characters oras cohorts (usually creatures with Intelligence
scores.of at least 3.and possessing opposable thumbs), Add this
number to the creature's total Hit Dice, including class levels, to
getthe creature's effective character level (ECL). A character's ECL
affects the experience the character earns, the amount of experi-
ence the character must have before gaining a new level, and the |
character's starting equipment, See pages 172, 199, and 209 of the |
Dungeon Master's Guide for more information.

DESCRIPTIVE TEXT
The hody of each entry opens with a sentence or two that!
describes what the player characters might see on first encounter-|
Ling a monster, followed by.a short description of the creature:
jwhat it does, what it looks like, and what is most noteworthy
labout it Special sections describe how the creature fights and give
details on special attacks, special qualities, skills, and feats,

 
