+ ———— ER

Huge Magical Beast
Hit Dice: 9d10+45 (94 hp)
Initiative: +1
Speed: 40 ft, (8 squares), climb 15 ft.
Armor Class: 20 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +11 natural), touch 9,
flat-footed 19
Base Attack/Grapple: +9/+25
Attack: Bite +15 melee (2d4+12)
Full Attack: Bite +15 melee (2d4+12)
\Space/Reach: 15 ft./10 ft.
Special Attacks: Breath weapon, constrict 248+8, improved
grab, rake 1d4+4, swallow whole
Special Qualities: Cant be tripped, darkvision 60 ft., immunity
to electricity, low-light vision, scent
Saves: Fort +11, Ref +7, Will +s
Abilities: Str 26, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 7, Wis 14, Cha 12
| Skills: Climb +16, Hide +5, Listen +4, Spot +4, Survival +2
Feats; Alertness, Cleave, Power Attack, Track
Environment: Warm hills
Organization: Solitary or pair
Challenge Rating: 8
Treasure: Standard
Alignment: Often neutral
Advancement; 10-13 HD (Huge); 14-27
_Level Adjustment: —

 

  

HD (Gargantuan}

\At first the creature appears as a huge armored snake, slithering across the
| ground at great speed. Then, without slowing. it. unfolds.a dozen legs from
\its serpentine body and runs forward to strike.

The behir is a serpentine monster that can slither like a snake or
use its dozen legs to move with considerable speed

A behir is about 40 feer long and weighs about 4,000 pounds. It
can fold its limbs close to its long, narrow body. and slither in
snake fashion if it desires. The coloration of behirs ranges from.

ultramarine to deep blue with bands of gray-brown. The belly is.
pale blue. The two large horns cutving back over the head look|
dangerous but are actually used for preening the creature's scales, |

not for fighting.

Behirs are never friendly with dragonkind and wont coexist

with any type of dragon. If a dragon enters a behir’s territory, the
behir does, everything it.can.to.drive the dragon out. If the behir
fails, it moves off to find a new home. A behir never knowingly
enters the territory ofa dragon.
Behirs speak Common.

   

COMBAT
A behir usually bites and grabs its prey first, then either swallows]
or.constricts the opponent. It can employ its claws only against}
foes caught in its coils. If beset by a large number of foes, it uses its,
breath weapon.

Breath Weapon. (Su): 20-foot line, once every 10 rounds,

jdamage 7d6 electricity, Reflex DC 19 half. The save DC is
Constitution-based.

Constrict (Ex): A behir deals 248+8 points of damage with,
asuccessful grapple check. It can make six rake attacks against
a grappled foe as well.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a behir must hitacrea-
ture of any size with its bite attack. It can then attempt.to start a
grapple as.a free action without provoking an attack of opportu: ,
nity. [fitswins the grapple check, it it establishes a hold and.canj
attempt to constrict the opponent or swallow the opponent in the
following round.

Rake (Ex): Six claws, attack bonus +15 melee, damage 1d4+4.,

Swallow Whole (Ex): A behir can try to swallow a grabbed Me-.

[dium or smaller opponent by making a successful grapple check,
A behir thar swallows an opponent can use its Cleave feat to bite
and grab another opponent. 4

A swallowed creature takes 2d8+8 points of bludgeoning
damage and § paints of acid damage per round from the behir's
gizzard. A swallowed creature can cut its way.out by.using a
light slashing or piercing weapon to deal 25 points of damage to.
the gizzard (AC 15), Once the creature exits, muscular action
closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must.cur its own)
way out.

A behir's gizzard can hold 2 Medium, 8 Small, 32 Tiny..or 128
Diminutive or smaller opponents }

Skills: Behirs have.a+8 racial bonus on Climb checks and.can
always choose to.take 10 on Climb checks, even if rushed or,
threatened

It floats before you, a bulbous body with a central, unblinking eye, and a
Jorge mow filled with doggerlike teeth. Smaller eyes. attached to wriggling
stalks, sprout from the top of the orblike body.

Beholders are the stuff of nightmares. These creatures, also called
the “spheres of many eyes” or “eye tyrants,” are deadly adversaries,
Beholders speak their own language and Common

COMBAT
The primary weapon of both the gauth and the beholder is a series
of deadly eye rays.
Eye Rays (Su): Each of a beholder's small eyes can produce
a magical ray once per round.as.a free action. During a single
round, a creature can aim only two.cye rays (gauth) or three eye
rays (beholder) at targets in anyone 90-degree arc (up, forward,
backward, left, right, or down). The remaining eyes must aim at
targets in other arcs, or not at all. A beholder can tilt and pan its
body.each round to change which rays it can bring to bear in any.
given arc.

Each eye's effect resembles a spell (caster level sth level fora,
gauth, or 14th for.a beholder), bur follows the rules for a ray (see)
Aiming a Spell, page 175 of the Player's Handbook).

AlLAround Vision (Ex): Beholders are exceptionally alert andl
(circumspect. Their many eyes give them a +4 racial bonus on Spot.
and Search checks, and they cant be flanked.

Flight (Ex): A beholder’s body is naturally buoyant. This!
buoyancy-allows it to fly ata speed of 20 feet. This buoyancy also.
grants ita permanent feather fall effect (as the spell) with per-

\sonal range.

F
:
:
;
2

 
