 
 
  
 

COMBAT

Displacer beasts tear at opponents with their ten-
tacles and bite foes that get close.

Displacement (Su): A light-bending glamer continually
surrounds a displacer beast, making it difficult to surmise the
creature's true location. Any.melee or ranged attack directed
at it has a $0% miss chance unless the
attacker can locate the beast by some
means other than sight, A true seeing
effect allows the user to see the beast's.
position, but see invisibility has no effect.

Resistance to Ranged Attacks (Su): A displacer
beast has a +2 resistance bonus on saves against any
ranged magical attack that specifically targets it (except
for ranged touch attacks).

Skills; A displacer beast has a +8 racial bonus on
Hide checks, thanks to its displacement ability.

DISPLACER BEAST
PACK LORD
Due to the bizarre nature of their anatomy, dis-
placer beasts are unusually likely to produce mu-
tant offspring. These whelps can grow to tre
mendous size, reaching a length of 20 feet
and standing almost 10 feet high at the
shoulder. Pack lords, as these gigantic dis-
placer beasts are known, frequently lead bands of
their smaller fellows.
Except for their freakish size and strength, pack
lords resemble normal displacer beasts.

   
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

Displacer beast

 

 
 

Doppelgangers are strange beings that are able to take on the|
shapes of those they encounter. In its natural form, the creature.
looks more or less humanoid, but slender and frail, sith gangly.
limbs and half-formed features. The flesh is pale and hairless, Its.
large, bulging eyes are yellow with slitted pupils.

A doppelganger’s appearance is deceiving even when it's in
its true form. A doppelganger is hardy, with a natural agility
not in keeping with its frail appearance.

Because they can take the shape of any humanoid benween +
and 8 feet tall, doppelgangers are natural spies and assassins.
They can sneak past sentries, slip into secured places, and
\ fool even lovers or close friends, They.are.cunning and
\, patient, willing to wait until an opportunity presents itself
instead of attacking rashly,

Doppelgangers make excellent use of their natural mim-
icry to stage ambushes, bait traps, and infiltrate humanoid
society. Although not usually evil, they are interested only
in themselves.and regard all others as playthings to be
manipulated and deceived.

Ir is natural form a doppelganger is about 5-1/2 feet tall
and weighs abut 150 pounds,

COMBAT

When in its natural form, a doppelganger strikes with its
powerful fists. In the shape.of a warrior or some other
armed person, it attacks with whatever weapon is appropri:
ate. In.such cases, it uses its detect thoughts ability to
employ the same tactics and strategies as the person it is imper-
sonating.

Detect Thoughts (Su): A doppelganger can continuously
use detect thoughts as the spell (caster level 18th; Will DC 13.
negates). It can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
The save DC is Charisma-based.

Change Shape (Su): A doppelganger can assume.the shape,
of any_Small or Medium humanoid. In humanoid form, the)
doppelganger loses its natural attacks. A doppelganger can}
remain in its humanoid form until it chooses to assume.a new.
onc, A change in form cannot be dispelled, bura doppelganger
reverts to its natural form when killed. A true seeing spell or
ability reveals its natural form.

Medium Monstrous Humanoid
(Shapechanger)

Hit Dice; 4d8+4 (22 hp)

Initiative: +1

Speed: 30 ft, (6 squares)

Armor Class: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural),
touch 11, flat-footed 14

Base Attack/Grapple: +4/+5

Attack: Slam +5 melee (1d6+1)

Full Attack: Slam +5 melee (id6+1)

Space/Reach: $ ft./s ft.

Special Attacks; Detect thoughts

Special Qualities; Change shape, immu-
nity to sleep and charm effects

Saves; Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +6

Abilities: Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int.13,
Wis 14, Cha 13

Skills; Bluff +10°, Diplomacy +3, Disguise
+9° (+11 acting), Intimidare +3, Listen +6,
Sense Motive +6, Spot +6

Feats: Dodge, Great Fortitude

Environment; Any

Organization: Solitary, pair, or gang (3-6)

Challenge Rating: 3

Treasure: Double standard

Alignment: Usually neutral.

Advancement: By character class

Level Adjustment: +4

 

This_gaunt. .gray-skinned_humanoid_has_long.
gangly_limbs anda bulbous head with large,
octopoid eyes. Its face is otherwise blank
ond featureless.

Doppelganger

 
