   

 

 

  

Flyby Attack, Improved Initiative, Leadership, Negotiator, Power SILVER DRAGON
Attack, Stealthy, Wingover. Dragon (Cold)

Breath Weapon (Su): 50-ft. cone, damage 12d10 fire, Reflex Enyironment: Temperate mountains
DC 26 (or higher if heightened) half; or 50-ft. cone,.6 points. Organization: Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and
Strength damage, Fortitude DC 26 (or higher if heightened, young adult: solitary or clutch (2 dult, mature adult, old,
negates, 4 very old, ancient, wyzm,.or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family

Crush (Ex); Area 15 ft. by.15 ft; Small or smaller opponents 1-2 and 2-5 offspring)

 

   

   

   

 

   

   

 

       

 

   

 

 

   

take 2d8+13 points of bludgeoning damage, and must succeed. on Challenge Ratings: Wyrmling 4; very young 5; young 7; juvenile
2 DC 26 Reflex save or be pinned; grapple bonus +38. 10; young adult 13; adult 15; mature adult 18; old 20; very old 21

Frightful Presence (Ex); 180-ft. radius, HD 22 or less, Will DC ancient 23; wyrm 24; great wyrm
26 negates, Treasure: Triple standard

Spells: As 7th-level sorcere: Alignment: Always lawful good

Typical Sorcerer Spells Known (6/8/7/5; save DC 15 + spell level Advancement; Wyrmling 8-9 HD; very young 11-12 HD;
O—arcane mark, detect magic, flare, light, mage hand, prestidigitation, young 14-15 HD; juvenile 17-18 HD; young adult 20-21 HD;
read magic; 1st—charm. person, magic missile, protection from evil adult 23-24 HD; mature adult 26-27 HD; old 29-30 HD; very
shield of faith, true strike; 2nd—cure m te wounds, fog cl old 32-33 HD; ancient 35-36 HD; wyrm 38-39 HD; great
elements; 3rd—searing light, suggestion, wyrm 41+ HD

Spell-Like Abilities: 3/da s. Caster level | {Level Adjustment: Wyrmling +4) very young +4; young +5
|Alternate Form (Su): A gold dragon can assume any animalor| | others
humanoid form of Medium size or smaller as a standard action
three times per day. This ability functions as a polymorph spell cast A smooth, shiny plate forms the dragon's face..It.has.a frill that rises high
on itself at its caster level, except that the dragon does not regain over its head and continues down the neck and back ta the tip of the tail
hit points for changing form and can only assume the form of an Long spines with dark tips support the frill. It has two smooth, shiny horns,
anirmal or humanoid, The dragon can remain in its animal or and wings that are wide and sleek, The dragon has the scent of rain, and
humanoid form until it chooses to assume a new one or return to its scales gleam like liquid metal.

its natural form.

Luck Bonus (Sp): 1/day—good creatures in a 60-ft emanation er dragons are regal and statuesque. They cheerfully assist
|gain.a +1 luck bonus on all saving throws, good creatures that are in genu ed and often take the forms |
| Water Breathing (Ex): This dragon can breathe underwater _, of kindly old men or fair d: when associating with humans
indefinirely and can freely use breath weapon, spells, and other er wyrmling’s scales are blue-gray with silver high:
jabilities underwater. ights. As. the dragon approaches adulthood, its
color gradually bright
ndividual
scales are scarcely visible.
From a distance, these dragons
look as if they have been.sculpred
pure metal. Silver dragons are
sometimes known. as shield dra
because of the silvery plates on their
As a silver dragon grows older, its pupils fade
until in the oldest the eyes resemble orbs of
mercury.

Silver dragons prefer aerial lairs on secluded
mountain peaks or amid the clouds themselves
nt smell of rain always accompanies them
Even in clouds, though, the lair always has a mag
| area with a solid floor for laying eggs and
storing treasure.

Silver dragons seem to prefer human form
nd they often have mortal com:
panions,.cven forming deep friendships.
Inevitably, howeve
¢ form.and departs for a time. Silver
dragons have a taste for human cuisine
and can live on such fare indefinitely.

Because they lair in similar territo-
ties, silver dragons and red dragons.

often come into conflict, Duels be
n the two varieties are furious. and}
deadly, bur silver dragons generally
get the upper hand by working
sttheir foes, often with human allies. +

 

 

  
    

se!

     
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

   

       

 

ens until the

 

3

    

   

 

 

   

 

to their owr

 

 

a dragon resu

 

5 its

 

 

  

twee:

 

 

together ag;

 

Silver dragon Combat
Silver dragons are
| faced with highly evil or aggressive foes. If necessary, they use fo;

cloud or.control weather to bli

ot violent and avoid combat except when

 

    

nd or co

  

se opponents before

 
