2
S
=
s
=

 

The drow warrior presented here had the following ability scores
before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9,
Cha§,

Challenge Rating: Drow with levels in NPC classes have aCR
equal to their character level. Drow with levels in PC classes have
a CR equal to their character level +1

Gray Elf

This humanoid is slender and nearly as tall.as a human. It is pale-|

skinned and dark-haired, with pointed ears.

\Gray.elves are the most.noble and regal of all elves. Taller and
grander in physical appearance than.others of their race, gray
clves have-a reputation for being sloof and arrogant (even by elven
standards). They certainly are more reclusive than high elves, living
in isolated mountain citadels and allowing entry only to a select
few outsiders They have either silver hair and amber eyes or pale

\golden hair and violet eyes, They prefer clothing of white, silver,

| yellow, or gold, with cloaks of deep blue or purple.
Gray Elf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the high elf
traits.
— +2 Intelligence, —2 Strength.

Wild Elf
This humanoid is slender and shorter than a human. Its has dark brown
skin, pointed ears, and black hair

Wild elves, also known as grugach, are barbaric and tribal
Wild elves’ hair color ranges from black to light brown,
lightening to silvery white with age. They dress in simple

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 

clothing of animal skins and basic plant weaves. Though other.
elves consider them savages, they contend that they are the.
true_elves, for the rest have lost their primal elven essence in}
needing to build, Nomadic and rugged, wild elves favor the
sorcerer class rather than wizard, although many are barbar-
Jans as well.

Wild Elf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition ro the high elf
traits, except where noted,

— +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence. These adjustments replace the,
high elf's ability score adjustments, i

—Favored Class: Sorcerer. This trait replaces the high elf's
favored class.

Wood Elf
Also called sylvan elves, members of this subrace live deep in pri-
mordial forests. Their hair color ranges from yellow to a. coppery
red, and they are more muscular than other elves. Their clothing is
in dark shades of green and earth tones to berter blend in with
\their natural surroundings. Their homes are sometimes guarded
by giant owls or leopards.
Wood EIf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the high
elf traits, except where noted.
Strength, -2 Intelligence.
—Fayored Class: Ranger, This trait replaces the high elf’s
favored class,

Medium Aberration

Hit Dice: sds (22 hp)

Initiative: +8

Speed: 40 ft. (8 squares)

Armor Class: 17 (+4 Dex, +3 natural), touch 14, flat-footed 13

Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+3

Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d4)

Full Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d4)

Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.

Special Attacks: —

Special Qualities; Darkvision 60 ft., detect magic,

ethereal jaunt

Saves: Fort +1, Ref +s, Will +5

Abilities: Str 10, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12,
Cha 10

Skills: Listen +9, Sleight of Hand +12, Spot +9

Feats: Dodge, Improved Initiative

Environment: Underground

  

 

 

Challenge Rating: 3

‘Treasure: No coins; standard goods;

double items

Alignment; Usually neutral

Advancement: 6-7 HD (Medium);
8-15 HD (Large)

Level Adjustment: —

 

This bizarre creature stands nearly as tall as
human, but that’s where the similarity
ends. It has 0 baglike body that balances on a single, powerful leg that.

ends in.a_ prehensile foot. Its face is located in the center of its body, with
four eyes.and a large mouth. Four long, multijointed arms extend fram |
the body. cach ending in long. slender fingers.

 
  
 
 
 

Ethereal filchers are. bizarre-looking creatures with a penchant)
_for snatching trinkets from passersby Their ability to move
.quickly between the Ethereal Plane and the Material Plane makes
them spectacular pickpockets,
