    
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   

Strength modifier to attack rolls only. Against nonethereal oppo-
nents, it adds its Dexterity modifier to attack rolls only.
Frightful Moan (Su): A ghost can emit a frightful moan.as a stan-

\cessfully saves against the moan cannot be affected by the same|
\ghost's moan for 24 hours.

, Horrific Appearance (Su): Any living creature within 60 feet!
\that views a ghost must succeed ona Fortitude save or imme-

\diately take 1d4 points of Strength damage, 1d4 points of Dex-

.terity.damage, and 1d4 points:of Constitution damage. A crea-

ture that successfully saves against this effect cannot be

affected by the same ghost’s horrific appearance for 24 hours.

Malevolence (Su): Once per round, an ethereal ghost can merge
its body with a.creature.on the Material Plane. This ability is
similar to.a. magic jar-spell (caster level 10th or the ghost's Hit)
\Dice, whichever is higher), except that it does not require.a)
jreceptacle. To use this ability, the ghost must be manifested and,
it must try move into. the target's space; moving into the target's
space to use the malevolence ability does not provoke attacks of
opportunity. The target can resist the attack with a successful
Will save (DC 15 + ghost’s Cha modifier). A creature that suc-
cessfully saves is immune to that same ghost’s malevolence for 24
hours, and the ghost cannot enter the target's space. If the save
fails, the ghost vanishes into the target's body.
|_Manifestation (Su): Every ghost has this ability. A ghost dwells
jon.the Ethereal Plane and, as an ethereal creature, it cannot
\affect or be affected by anything in the material world. When a
ighost manifests, it partly enters the Material Plane and
\becomes visible but incorporeal on the Material Plane. A mani-
jfested ghost can be harmed only by other incorporeal crea-
tures, magic weapons, or spells, with a 50% chance to ignore
any.damage from a corporeal source, A. manifested ghost can
pass through solid objects at will, and its. own attacks pass
through armor. A manifested ghost always moves silently.

A manifested ghost can strike with its touch attack or with a_
ghost touch weapon (see Ghostly Equipment, below). A mani-,
fested ghost remains partially on the Ethereal Plane, where is it)
not incorporeal. A manifested ghost can be attacked by opponents.
on either the Material Plane or.the Ethereal Plane. The ghost's
incorporeality helps protect it from foes on the Material Plane, but
not from foes.on the Ethereal Plane.

When a spellcasting ghost is not nianifested and is on the Ethe-
real Plane, its spells cannot affect targets on the Material Plane,
bur they work normally against ethereal targets. When a spellcast-

.ing ghost manifests, its spells continue to affect ethereal targets
jand.can affect targets on the Material Plane normally unless the
}spells rely on touch. A manifested ghost’s touch spells don't work
on.nonethereal targets.

A ghost has two home planes, the Material Plane and the
Ethereal Plane.Jt is not considered extraplanar when on either
of these planes.

Telekinesis (Su): A ghost. can use telekinesis as a standard action
(caster level 12th or equal.to the ghost’s HD, whichever is higher).
When a ghost uses this power, it must wait 1d4 rounds before
using it again,

Special Qualities: A ghost has all the special qualities of the

base creature as well as those described below,

Rejuvenation (Su): In-most cases, it's difficult to destroy a
ighost through simple combat: The “destroyed” spirit will often
restore itself in 2d¢ days. Even the most powerful spells are usu-
jally.only. temporary solutions. A ghost that would otherwise be
destroyed returns to its old haunts with a successful level check
(1420+ ghosts HD) against DC 16. Asa rule, the only way to get}
rid of a ghost for sure is to determine the reason for its exis-,

5 points of damage to itself. Against ethereal opponents, itadds its :

dard action, All living creatures within a 30-foot spread must suc-|
ceed on a Will save.or become panicked for 2d4 rounds. This is.
sonic necromantic mind-affecting fear effect. A creature that suc-|

deal of research.
Turn Resistance (Ex): A ghost has +4 turn resistance.
Abilities: Same as the base creature, except that the ghost has
{no Constitution score, and its Charisma score increases by +4.
Skills: Ghosts have a.+8 racial bonus on Hide, Listen, Search,
and Spot checks. Otherwise same as the base creature.
Environment: Any, often as base creature,
Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or mob (7=12).
Challenge Rating: Same as the base creature +2
Treasure: None,
Alignment: Any.

Level Adjustment: Same as the base creature +5.

Ghostly Equipment
When a ghost forms, all its equipment and carried items usually
ibecome ethereal along with it. In addition, the ghost retains 2d4

tence and set right whatever prevents it from resting in peace,
The exact means varies with each spirit and may require a good |

   

jitems that it particularly valued in life (provided they are not in,

janother creature's possession). The equipment works normally on
the Ethereal Plane but passes harmlessly through material objects.
or creatures. A weapon of +1 or better magical enhancement,
however, can harm material creatures when the ghost manifests,
burt any such attack has a 50% chance to fail unless the weapon is
a ghost touch weapon (just as magic weapons.can fail to harm the
ghost).

The original material items remain behind, just.as the ghost's|

jphysical remains do, If another creature seizes the original, the}

ethereal copy fades away. This loss invariably angers the ghost, who |

stops at nothing to return the item to its original resting place.

ee — GHOUT

This foul creature appears more or less humanoid, but has mottled,
decaying flesh drawn tight across clearly visible bones. It is mostly-hair-
fess and has a camivore's sharp teeth, Its eyes burn like hot coals in their
sunken sockets.

Ghouls haunt graveyards, battlefields, and other places rich with
the carrion they hunger for. These terrible creatures lurk wherever
the stench of death hangs heavy, ready to devour the unwary.

Ghouls are said to be created upon the death of a living man or
woman who savored the taste of the flesh of people. This assertion
may_or.may not be true, but ir does explain the disgusting behavior
of these anthropophagous undead. Some believe that anyone of
exceptional debauchery and wickedness runs the risk of becoming
a ghoul. The transformation from living beings into fell things of
the night has warped their minds, making them cunning and feral.

Ghouls speak the languages they spoke in life (usually
Common).

COMBAT
Ghouls try.to attack with surprise whenever possible. They strike
from behind tombstones and burst from shallow graves.

Ghoul Fever (Su): Disease—bite, Fortitude DC 12, incubation
period 1 day, damage 1d3 Con and 1d3 Dex. The save DC is.
Charisma-based.

An afflicted humanoid who dies of ghoul fever rises asa ghoul |
at the next midnight. A humanoid who becomes a ghoul in this}
way retains none.of the abilities it possessed in life. It is notunder.
ithe control of any other ghouls, but it hungers for the flesh of the |

living and behaves like a normal ghoul inall respects. A humanoid |
of 4 Hit Dice or more rises as a ghast, nota ghoul. 1
Paralysis (Ex): Those hit by a ghoul’s bite or claw attack must
{succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude save or be paralyzed for 1d4+1
jrounds, Elves have immunity_to this paralysis. The save DC is
Charisma-based.
