 

———_GIBBERING MOUTHER

Medium Aberration

Hit Dice: 4d8+24 (42 hp

Initiative: +1

Speed: 10 ff. (2 squares), swim 20 ft

Armor Class; ex, +8 natural), touch 11, flat-footed 18

Base Attack/ 3 43/43.

Attack: Bite +4 melee (1) or spittle +4 ranged touch (1d¢ acid
plus blindness)

Full Attack: 6 bites +4 melee (1) and spittle +4 ranged touch
(1d4 acid plus blindness)

Space/Reach: 5 ft,/s ft G

Special Attacks: Gibbering, spittle, improved grab
blood drain, engulf, ground manipulation

Special Qualities: Amorphous, damage reduc
tion 5/bludgeoning, darkvision 60 ft.

Saves: Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +5

Abilities: Str 10, Dex 13, Con 22, Int 4, Wis
13, Cha 13

Skills: Listen +4, Spot +9, Swim +8

Feats: Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Finesse

Environment: Underground

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Ratin,

Treasure: None

\Alignment: Usually neutral

Advancement: 5-12 HD
(Large

Level Adjustment: —

 

  
 

 

This unwholesome creature has
a. body with the form and fluid-
ity of an.amoeba
surface has the
color, but not. the

 

 

consistency, of human
flesh. Countless eyes and toothy mouths constantly form and disappear all.
over the creature, often retreating into its body even as they become.

opparent,

  

A gibbering mouther isa horrible creature seemingly drawn from
a lunatic’s nightmares. Although not evil, it thirsts after bodily
fluids and seems to prefer the blood of intelligent creatures.
Sometimes the arrangement of eyes and mouths on a gibbering
mouther's body a resembles a face, but just as.often they have no
relationship to one another.
A gibbering mouther is about 3 feetacross and 3 to 4 feet high
Tit weighs about 200 pounds
Gibbering mouthers can speak Common, but seldom say any
thing other than gibberish,

COMBAT
A gibbering mouther attacks by shooting out strings of protoplas:
mic flesh, each ending in one or more eyes and a mouth that bites
at the enemy. A mouther can send out a total of six such members
in any round.

Gibbering (Su): As soon as a mouther spots something edible
ir begins a constant gibbering as.a free action, All creatures (other
than mouthers) within a. 60-foot spread must succeed. on a DC 13
Will save or be affected as though by a confusion spell for 1d2
rounds, This is a sonic mind-affecting compulsion effect, A crea

jture that successfully saves cannot be affected by the same gib-
bering mouther's gibbering for 24 hours. The save DC is
Charisma-based.

Spittle (Ex); As a free action every round, a gibbering mouther

fires.a stream of spittle at one opponent within 30 feet. The

 

 

 

 

 

      

 

 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

jbbering mouther

mouther makes a ranged touch attack; if it hits, it deals 1d points
of acid damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 18 Fortitude
save.or be blinded for 1d4 rounds, Eyeless creatures are immune.
to the blinding effect, but are still subject to the acid damage. The.
save DC is Constiturion-based.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a gibbering mouther
must hit with a bite attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple as
a free action without provoking an attack of opportunity.

Blood Drain (Ex): On.a successful grapple check after grab-
bing, that mouth attaches to the opponent. It automatically
deals bite damage and drains blood, dealing 1 point of Constitu
tion damage each round. A mouth can be ripped off (dealing 1

point of damage) with a DC 12 Strength check or.severed by a

successful sunder attempt (the mouth has 2 hit points
A severed mouth continues to bite and
drain blood for 1d4 rounds after such an
attack. A creature whose Constitution is
reduced to 0 is killed
Engulf (Ex): A gibber
ing mouther can try to
engulf a Medium or.
smaller opponent
grabbed by three
or more mouths,
The opponent must
succeed on.a DC 14
Reflex save or fall
and be engulfed, In
the next_round, the
mouther_makes.
twelve bite at
tacks instead of
six (each with a+4
tack bonus), An en
gulfed creature cannot attack
the mouther from within. The previ
e now free to attack others, The

  

 

 

   

ously attached mouths a
save DC is Strength-based and includes a +2 racial bonus.
Ground Manipulation (Su): Atwwill, as. standard action, a gib-
bering mouther can cause stone and earth in all adjacent squares
to become a morass akin to quicksand. Softening earth, sand, or
the like takes 1 round, while stone takes.2 rounds. Anyone other
than the mouther in that area must take a move-equivalent
action.to avoid becoming mired (treat as being pinned
Amorphous (Ex): A gibbering mouther is not subject to criti
cal hits Ircannot be flanked.
Thanks to their multi;

 
 
  

 

 

 

Skills
a +4 racial bonus on Spot checks.
A gibbering mouther has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to
perform some special action or avoid a hazard, It always can
choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan
ction while swimming, provided it

 

yes, gibbering mouthers have

 

 

   

gered, Itcan use the ru
swims.in.a straight line.

ee eee UE LON

Large Magical Beast

Hit Dice: 7d10+20 (58 hp.

Initiative: +3

Speed: 40 fr, (8 squares), climb 40 ft

Armor Class; 16 (—1 size, +3 Dex, +4 natural), touch 12,
flat-footed

Base Attack/Grapple: +7/+17

Attack: Claw +12 melee (1d4+6

Full Attack: 4 claws +12 melee (1d4+6) and bite +7 melee
(id8+3)

Space/Reach: 10 f1./10 ft

 

 

 
