    
  
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    

direct their powers with pinpoint accuracy to support their
comrades in melee.

Psionics (Sp): 3/day—daze (DC 9), mage hand, In addition
githyanki of 3rd level or higher can_use.blur three times per day
githyanki of 6th level or higher can use dimension door three times
per day, and githyanki of 9th level or higher can use telekinesis.
DC 14) three times per day and plane shift (DC 16) once per
jday. Effective caster level equals the githyanki’s class levels. The.
save DCs are Charisma-based.

Spell Resistance (Ex): A
githyanki has spell resist
ance equal to its cl:
levels + 5.

   

 

 

 

The githyanki warrior
presented here had the
following ability scores
before racial adjustments:
|Str13,Dex 11, Con 12, Int
10, Wis 9, Cha 8.

Challenge Rating: Gith-
yanki with levels in NPC
classes have a CR equal to their
character level. Githyanki with
levels in PC classes have a CR
equal to their character level +1

Githyanki

\i{

 

 

Gjthyanki Silver Swords
These impressive weapons are
typically carried by githyanki
combatants of 9th level and
higher. Of githyanki make, a
silver sword is a +1 silv great-
sword that looks much like a
standard weapon while still in
its sheath, But when drawn, th
silver swend transforms into a c
umn of silvery liquid, altering the
weapon's balance round by round as the
blade’s shape flows and shimmers. A silver
sword has the additional quality of reaching
into the minds of the foes it strikes, disrupt
ing their psionic powers. A target hit by the
weapon_must succeed on a_DC 17 Fortitude
save or lose any psionic abilities for 1d4
rounds,

High-level githyanki often take the
Improved Sunder feat, using their silver
swonds to attack astral travelers’ silver cords
see the astral projection spell, page 201 of
the Player's Handbook). The normally
insubstantial cord is treated as a tan
gible object with che owner's AC,
hardness 10, and 20 hit points

It is rumored that each githyanki
warrior has but one silver svond, and if
the weapon is lost or stolen, the
githyanki must seek it out atall costs or be

ed by its superiors, That may be only a

end, bur githyanki have been known to exact terrible revenge
upon those who steal their silver swords or win them in. battle.

|__Some silver swords (belonging to particularly high-level

{githyanki) have additional enhancements. Enhancing a silver

‘swond is just like working with any other weapon that has existing

abilities. A normal githyanki silver sword is treated as having a +2

enhancement for this purpose: +1 for its bonus on attack and
damage rolls and another +1 for the sword’s antipsionic ability

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
  

 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 

GITHYANKI SOCIETY
In eons past, the mind flayers enslaved entire races, including the
forerunners of the githyanki. Centuries of captivity bred hatred,
nurtured resolve, and finally instilled psionic powers into these
slaves. With mental armaments of their own and a powerful
leader to rally behind (the legendary Gith), the slaves instigated
cross-planar struggle that, in the end, threw down the mind
flayer empire, bringing freedom to the surviving slaves. How-
ever, these survivors soon split into the racially distinct githyanki
and their mortal enemies, the githzerai (see the.

Githzerai entry, below). Each consta

tempts the extinction of the other. This ani
mosity has burned through the centuries, warp
ing the githyanki into the evil, miliraristic
creatures they are today, Both creatures’ hatred of
mind flayers knows no bounds, though, and th:
will break off hostilities to slay illithids if the
opportunity presents itself.

Githyanki live within massive fortresses adrift
in the Astral Plane. Here they conduct commerce,
manufacture goods, grow food, and live out their

lives. Family dwellings are nonexistent, since.

most githyanki prefer their own abod:
ever, githyanki are often found in groups, honing
their fighting skills. A fortress.contains noncom:
batants (mostly children) equal to 20% of
the fighting popul i males
and females may be found in almost any
role or class.

The githyanki have no deity but instead
pay homage to a lich-queen. A jealous and
paranoid overlord, she devours the
nce of any githyanki thar.rises above

16th level. In addition to e

potenti the li
hances her power with the stolen life
essence,

Red Dragon Pact: Githyanki have a racial pact
with red dragons, which sometimes serve githyanki as
mounts. Individually, githyanki have a +4 racial bonus on
Diplomacy checks when dealing with red dragons. In
large groups, they can make temporary alliances with
red dragons at the option of the Dungeon Master,

GITHYANKI AS CHARACTERS
Most githyanki are fighters. Some of the most pov
githyanki warl
clerics, unless they have forsworn the dreaded lich:
queen (which is a perilous and ultimately lethal deci
sion
Githyanki characters possess the
traits
— +2 Dexterity, +2 Consti

Medium size.
A githyanki’s base land speed is

30 feet.

—Darkvision out to 60 feet,
al Feats: A githyanki character gains feats

 

 

 

 

at

 

  

   

    

 

 

how

   

 

 

   

     

 
 

| rival,

 

 

ul

 

 

lords are blackguards, Githyanki are never

 

ollowing racial

2 Wisdom.

 

ution,

se

Rai
according to its character class.
Special Attack:
Special Qualities (see above); Psionics, spell resistance equal
to class levels +5.
—Automartic Languages; Githyanki, Bonus Languages; Com:
mon, Infernal, Draconic, Undercommon.
Favored Class; Fighter.
Level adjustment +2.

 

see above): Psionics.

 
