—Racial Feats: A gnoll's humanoid levels give it one feat.
— +1 natural armor bonus,
—Automatic Languages: Gnoll, Bonus Languages: Common
Draconic, Elven, Goblin, Ore.
—Favored Class: Ranger.
Level adjustment +1

———__———_—_ GNOME

This. humanoid stands a little more shan half.as high as a human, It has
@.compact build, dark tan skin, fair hair.and large eyes

 

 

Gnomes are inveterate explorers, tricksters, and inventors. They
have a knack for both illusion and alchemy

Gnomes stand 3.10 3-1/2 feet tall and weigh 40 to 45 pounds.
Their skin color ranges from dark tan to woody brown, their
hair_is fair, and their eyes can be any shade of blue. Gnome
males prefer short, carefully trimmed beards. Gnomes generally

 

wear leather or earth tones, though they
decorate their clothes with intricate}
stitching or fine jewelry. Gnomes reach

adulthood at about age 40, and they live
about 350 years, though some can live

 

 

    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  

almost 500 ye

Gnomes are inguisitiv
earn by personal experience. At times
they're even reckless. Their curiosity
makes them skilled engineers, as they
are always trying new ways to build
things, Sometimes a gnome pulls a
prank just to see how the individuals
involved will react

Gnomes speak their own lan
¢, Gnome. Most gnomes who
travel ouside gnome lands (as
ers, tinkers, or adventurers
know Common, while warriors in
gnome settlements usually |
Goblin

Most gnomes encountered
outside their home are warriors
the information in the statistics
block is for one of 1st level.

OMBAT
Gnomes prefer misdirection and
deception over direct confronta-
tion, They svould rather befuddle or
embarrass foes (other than gobli
noids or kobolds) than kill them.
Gnomes make heavy use of illusion
magic and carefully prepared
ambushes and traps whenever
they can.

Gnome Traits (Ex); Gnomes possess
the following racial traits

— +2 Constitution, —2 Strength,

—Small size. +1 bonus to Armor Class, +1
bonus on attack rolls, +4 bonus.
on Hide checks, -4 penalty on
grapple checks, lifting and carrying limits
3/4 those of Medium characters.

—A gnome’ base land speed is 20 feet,

—Low-light vision.

Weapon Familiarity: Gnomes may treat gnome hooked

hammers (see Chapter 7 of the Player's Handbook) as martial weap-
ons rather than exotic weapons.

   

They love to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+2 racial bonus on saving throws against illusions

Add +1 to.the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against
illusion spells cast by gnomes. This adjustment stacks with those
from similar effects, such as the Spell Focus feat.

— +1 racial bonus on_attack rolls against kobolds and gobli
including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears

— +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against creatures of the giant
type (such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants

+2 racial bonus on Listen checks.

+2 racial bonus.on Craft (alchemy) checks,

Automatic Languages: Common, Gnome. Bonus Languages:
Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, Orc,

Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—speak with animals (burrowing
mammal only, duration 1 minute). A gnome with a Charisma
score of at least 10 also has the following spell-like abiliti
1/day—dancing lights, ghost sound, prestidigitation, Caster level 1st:
save DC 10 + gnome’s Cha modifier + spell level.

—Favored Class; Bard.

 

noi

 

 

     
   

      

   

The gnome warrior presented here had the following ability
scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10,
Wis 9, Cha 8

GNOME SOCIETY

Gn well with
dwarves, who share their love of
precious things, their curiosity
about mechanical devices, and
their hatred of goblins and
giants. They enjoy the com
pany of halflings, especially
those who are_easygoing
enough to put_up_ with
pranks and jests. Most
gnomes are a little suspi
cious of the taller_races

humans, elves, half-elyes, and

    

nes get alo

 

 

half-orcs—but they are rarely
hostile or malicious.

Gnomes make their homes in
hilly, wooded lands. They |
underground but get more fresh

air than dwarves, enjoying
ral, living world on the surface when
ever they can, Their homes are well
hidden, both by clever construction
and illusions, Those who come to visit
and are welcome are ushered into the
bright, warm burrows. Those who are
not. welcome never find the burrows
in the first place

The chi
Glitrergold, the V
His ch
cherish and supp

ties, Pranks, for example, are seen as
ways to lighten spirits and to keep
gnomes humble, not ways for prank
sters to triumph over those they trick,

 

 

ve

 

he natu:

 

  

 

gnome deity is Garl
atchful Protector.

   

rics teach that gnomes are to

 

their communi

 

SUBRACES
The information above is for rock
gnomes, the most common variety
There-are two other major gnome subraces

 

lows.

 

which differ from rock gnomes a:

 
