 

 

Dusky, metallic scales cover this creature's bull-like body. It. has silver

homs.

Gorgons guard their territory fiercely. They are fond of rocky
areas, especially underground labyrinths.

Atypical gorgon stands over 6 feet tall at the shoulder and meas-
ures 8 feet from snout to tail. It weighs about 4,000 pounds.

Gorgons are nothing if not aggressive. They attack intruders.
on sight, attempting to trample, gore, or petrify them. There is
no way.to.calm these furious creatures, and they are impossible
to. domesticate.

COMBAT
Whenever possible, a gorgon begins an encounter by charging at
its opponents.

Breath Weapon (Su): 60-foot cone, once every 1d4 rounds (but
no more than five times per day), turn to stone permanently, For
titude DC 19 negates. The save DC is Constitution-based.

Trample (Ex): Reflex DC 19 half. The save DC is Strength:
based.

—____ GRAY RENDER

Large Magical Beast

Hit Dice: 10d10+70 (125 hp’
Initiative: +0

Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares.
Armor Class; 19 (—1 size, +10 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 19
Base Attack/Grapple: +10/+20

Attack: Bite +15 melee (2d6+6

Full Attack: Bite +15 melee (2d6+6); 2 claw:
Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft

Special Attacks: Improved grab, rend 246+9

: Darkvision 60 ft, low-light vision, scent
Fort +14, Ref +7, Will +4

Abilities: Str 23, Dex 10, Con 24, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 8
Skills: Hide +2, Spot +10, Survival +3.

Feats: Cleave, Power Attack, Improved Bull Rush, Track
Environment: Temperate marshes.

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Rating: 8

‘Treasure: None

Alignment: Usually neutral

Advancement: 11-15 HD (Large); 16-30 HD (Huge.
Level Adjustment: +5 (cohort

 

  

 

10 melee (1d6+3

 

 
  

 

 

This hulking biped has the mass of a giant. It has a
stooped frame,.o gray, hairless body, and broad shoulders
Its.arms.are Jong and sinewy, and its clawed hands scrape
along the ground as it walks. Its sloped forehead bears six
small,.yellowish eyes. Its mouth is wide and powerful-look
ing, filled with black teeth

Bestial and savage, the gray render is a deadly preda-
tor found in remote wilderness areas,

These beasts are thought to be composed of dense
muscle and bone, granting them the strength and
stamina of a giant. A gray render stands abour 9 feer
tall in spite of its hunched posture and is about 4 feet
swide, It weighs about 4,000 pounds,

Rangers have reported seeing renders uproot trees
3.feet in diamerer with their jaws and tear them into
{splinters in just minutes.

Gray_renders are never found in groups, Each of
these asexual creatures produces one offspring and car
ries it fora time in a pouch, but thereafter the young
render must fend for itself.

A unique quality of the gray render is its tendency to bond
with, protect, and provide for another creature (or group of crea-
tures) native to its surroundings. This strange behavior seems.
contrary. to its otherwise savage nature, yet gtay renders haye
been found with wolves, lions, horses, displacer beasts, owlbears,
unicorns, hippogriffs, and occasionally even humanoid groups,
Whether accepted or not, the render always attempts to remain
fairly close, watching ayer its adopted charge(s) and daily bring-
ing an offering of meat. It never willingly harms adopted crea:
tures and retreats if they attack it. Most adopted creatures quickly.
begin to appreciate having such a powerful ally and accept and
even rely on the gray render.

COMBAT
A gray render attacks to kill, whether to bring down prey or to pro
tect itself or those it has adopted, When hunting, it sometimes
attempts to hide and wait for prey to wander close.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a gray render must hit
with its bite attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple asa free
action without provoking an attack of opportunity

Rend (Ex): A gray render that wins a grapple check after a suc-
cessful bite attack establishes a hold, latching onte the opponent's
body and tearing the flesh, This attack automatically deals 246+9
points of damage.

Skills: Gray renders have a +4 racial bonus on Spot checks due
to their six keen eyes.

 

 

render

 

   

   
 
