  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
      
   
      
      
 
    
   
   
     
     
   
 
      
       
  
  

Amphibious (Ex): Merfolk can breathe both air and water, al
though they rarely travel more than a few feet from the water's edge

Skills: A merfolk has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to
perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always
choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan
gered. It can use the run action while swimming, provided it
swims in a straight line

The merfolk warrior presented here had the following ability.
scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10,
Wis.9, Cha 8.

MERFOLK SOCIETY
Merfolk live in semipermanent communities located near choice
fishing and hunting areas. They often keep company with por
poises, Surface dwellers who come face to face with merfolk com-
monly encounter a scouting or hunting patrol.
The merfolk revere the deity Eadro, who created both them and.
the locathahs.

MERFOLK CHARACTERS
A merfolk’s favored. class is bard; most merfolk leaders are bards
Merfolk spellcasters who are not bards are generally adepts, Mer
folk clerics worship Eadro. A merfolk cleric has access to two of
the following domains: Animal, Protection, or Water.

J

‘Large Aberration (Shapechanger)

Hit Dice: 7d8+21 (52 hp)

Initiative: +1

Speed: 10 ft. (2. squares’

Armor Class: 15 (~1 size, +1 Dex, +5 natural), touch 10.
flat-footed 15

Base Attack/Grapple: +5/+13

Attack: Slam +9 melee (1d8+4

Full Attack: 2 slams +9 melee (1d8+4.

Space/Reach: 10 f1./10 ft

Special Attacks: Adhesive, crush

Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immunity to acid, mimic
shape

Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +6

Abilities; Str 19, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 10

Skills: Climb +9, Disguise +13, Listen +8, Spot +8

Feats; Alertness, Lightning Reflexes; Weapon Focus (slam

Environment: Underground

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Rating: +

Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50%
goods; 50%

Alignment: Usually neutral

Advancement: 8-10 HD
Large); 11-21 HD (Huge)

Level Adjustment: —

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

     

items Mimic

What originally appeared to be
an object now shows signs of

organic life as the creature \
sprouts a lashing pseudopod.

The mimic isa strange and
|deadly crearure that can
\change its pigmentation
and shape. It-uses.this ability to
lure hapless victims close enough to
slay them.

  

    
     
   

 

[nis said that mimics are not natural creatures but were created
long ago by a now-forgotten wizard. Ever since, these terrible
things have served ro guard treasures.

A.mimic can have almost any dimensions, but usually is not
more than 10 feet long, Atypical mimic has a volume of 150.cubic

Lfeet (5 feet by 5 feer by 6 feet) and weighs about 4,500 pounds.

Mimics speak Common.

COMBAT
‘A mimic often surprises an unsuspecting adventurer, lashing out
with a heavy pseudopod. The creature does not necessarily fight to
the death if ir can succeed in extorting treasure or food £
party,

Adhesive (Ex): A mimic exudes a thick slime thatacts.as.a
powerful adhesive, holding fast any creatures or items that
touch it. An adhesive-covered mimic automatically grapples
any creature it hits with its slam attack. Opponents so grappled
cannot get free while the mimic is alive without removing the
adhesive first

A weapon that strikes an adhesive-coated mimic is stuck fast
unless the wielder succeeds on.a DC 16 Reflex save. A successful
DC 16 Strength check is needed to pry it off

Strong alcohol dissolves the adhesive, but the mimic still can
grapple normally. A mimic can dissolve its adhesive at will, and
the substance breaks down 5 rounds after the creature dies.

Crush (Ex); A mimic deals 1d8+4 points of damage with a suc
cessful grapple check.

Mimic Shape (Ex): A mimic can assume.the general shape of
any object that fills roughly 150 cubic feet (5 feet by S feet by 6
feet), such as a massive chest, a stout bed, or a wide door frame.
The creature cannot substantially alter its size, though. A mimic’s
body is hard and has a rough texture, no matter what appearance it
might present. Anyone who examines the mimic can detect th
ruse with a successful Spor check opposed by the mimic’s Disguise
check. Of course, by this time it is generally far too late

Skills: A mimic has a +8 racial bonus on Disguise checks.

 

oma

 

 

 

   

 

| ________MIND'FLAYER

This strange humanoi

 

/-shaped being stands about as tall as a human. Its
flesh is rubbery and greenish-mauve, glistening with slime. The creature's
head looks rather like a four-tentacled octopus, made all the more horri
ble by a pair of bloated white eyes.

Mind flayers, also called illithids, are so insidious, diabolical, and
powerful that all denizens of the dark fear them. They be
to their will and shatter enemies’ minds.
A.mind flayer’s mouth, a revolting thing shaped like a
lamprey's maw, constantly drips an oily slime w
not siphoning out the brains of living prey:
In addition to being highly intelli.
gent, wholly evil, and terribly
sadistic, mind flayers are
utterly self-serving. If an
encounter turns against the
creature, it flees at once,
caring nothing for the
fate of its companions or
servitors
A mind flayer is abour.

the same height and.
weightas.a human.
Mind flayers speak Under-
common but prefer to commu
nicate telepathically.

 

   

d others

 

en it is
