 

 

This being's beauty exceeds mere words: she is captivating and dangerous
because of the emotions she inspires. She has long. copper hair, perfect
skin, large eyes, and long, swept-back ears

Nymphs are nature's embodiment of physical beauty, and the
guardians of the sacred places of the wild, They are so unbear-
ably lovely that even a glimpse of one can blind an onlooker,
Nymphs hate evil and any who would despoil the wilds for any
reason,

A nymphs demeanor is wild and mercurial. Like nature itself,
she embodies both great beauty and fears
can.be kind and graceful to mortals who revere the
wild places of the world, but is.alsa.quick to
strike against mortals who take mote than
they need or who treat nature thought
lessly, Animals of all types flock to a
nymph, ignoring the presence of
natural enemies; injured beasts
know that the nymph will rend
their wounds,

A nymph is about the height
and weight of a female elf

Nymphs speak Sylvan and
Common.

COMBAT
A nymph usually avoids contact
with nonfey, but she often has a
place she holds sacred and
defends against all intrusion—a
grove, a pool, or sometimes a hill
top or peak. She uses her spells
and animal allies to drive intrud:
ers away from the spot she
defends, preferring to.use non:
lethal attacks first and resorting
adly attacks only when faced
by evil creatures or intruders who
reply to her efforts with deadly
attacks of their own.

Nymphs are better disposed
toward elves, half-elves, and
druids, individuals they
ognize as friends of nature.
They are likely to offer such
people.a chance to explain their
presence instead of driving
them away.Nymp
been known to aid good heroes
who approach them in a.courte
ous and respectful manner,

Blinding Beauty.(Su): This ability
affects all humanoids within 30 feet of a nymph
Those who look directly ata nymph must succeed on a DC 17 For
titude save or be blinded. permanently.as though by the blindness
spell. A nymph can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
The save DC is Charisma-based.

Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—dimension door. Caster level 7th.

Spells: A nymph casts divine spells as.a 7th-level druid,

Typical Druid Spells Prepared (6/5/4/3/1, save DC 13+ spell level.
—ture minor.wounds, detect magic, flare, guidance, light, resistance
1st—calm animal, cure light wounds, entangle, longstrider, speak with

animals; 2nd—barkskin, heat metal, lesser restoration, tree shape; 3rd:
call. lightning, cure moderate wounds, protection from energy; 4th—rust-
ingg

Stunning Glance (Su): As a standard action, a wrathful nymph.
can stun a.crearure within 30 feet with a look. The target creature.

   

 

danger. She

 

 

 

  

 

c

 

have also

 

 

  

 

  

 

   

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

mph

must succeed on.a DC 17 Fortitude save or be stunned for 2d4
rounds, The save DC is Charisma-based.

Unearthly Grace (Su): A nymph adds her Charisma modifier
asa bonus on all her saving throws, and as a deflection bonus to
her Armor Class. (The statistics block already reflects these
bonuses

Wild Empathy (Ex): This power works like the druid’s w
empathy class feature, except that a nymph has a 46 1
on the check.

Skills: A nymph has.a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check
perform some special action or avoid a hazard. She can always
choose to.take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or
ndangered. She can use the run action while swim
ming, provided she swims in.a straight line

——__—____- JURE

This hulking brute appears to be at least 9
feet tall. It has.a thick hide covered in dark.
warty bumps, its
hair is.long,.unkempt, and greasy.

 

ial bonus.

 

   

10.

   

 

 

it wears smelly skins, an

Ogres are big, ugly, greedy creatures

that live by raiding and scavenging.
They join other monsters.to prey on
the weak and associate freely with
ogre mages, giants, and trolls,

Lazy and_bad-tempered, ogres
solve problems by smashing them;
what they can't smash, they either
ignore or flee. Dwelling in small
tribal groups, ogres occupy any con

venient location and eat nearly. any
thing they can catch, steal, or slay

Ogres sometimes accept merce

ry service with other eyil
humanoids (including humans
Adult ogres stand 9 to 10 feet
tall and weigh 600 to 650 pounds
Their skin color ranges from dull
yellow to dull brown
clothing consists of poorly
cured furs and hides, which add
to their naturally repellent odor.
Ogres speak Giant, and those

    

 

 

 

 

   

 

Their

specimens who boast Intelli
= gence scotes of at least 10 also
speak Common.

Combat

 

Ogres favor overwhelming odds, sneak

attacks, and ambushes over a fair fight. They are

intelligent enough to fire ranged weapons first to soften up

their foes before closing, but ogre gangs and bands fight as unor-
ganized individuals

OGRE BARBARIAN
Their inherent bent toward chaos combines with their size and
strength to make ogres natural barbarians. Indeed, their leaders
are almost always barbarians of low to middle level, monstrous.
brutes whose fury in battle is truly fearsome. A raging ogre bar-
barian is an inspiration to other ogres,

 

Combat
Marginally more intelligent than his brutish fellows, an ogre bar:
barian is slightly more likely to enter a fair fight, but in general
prefers the brurish tactics common to all its kind

 
