   
  
   
  
 
    
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
  

   
 
   
   

 
 
   

 

Skills: Bluff +17*, Concentration +13, Diplomacy +7, Disguise
+17 (+19 acting)", Intimidate +5, Listen +13, Move Silently

 

 

+13, Perform (oratory) +13, Sense Motive +11, Spelleraft +11
Spot +11
Feats: Alertness, Combat Casting, Dodge

Environment; Warm marshes

Organization: Solitary

Challenge Rating: 10

Treasure: Standard coins; double goods; standard items
Alignment; Always lawful evil

Advancement: By character class

Level Adjustment: +7

This being Jooks like a humanoid tiger garbed in expensive clothes. The
body seems mostly human except for a luxurious coat of tiger's fur and
its tiger head

 

Some say.rakshasas
are more malevolent.

A.closer look at a rakshasa reveals that the palms of its hands
are where the backs of the hands would be on a human, While
this doesn't detract from the creature's manual dexterity, it
makes a rakshasa look very disturbing to those unfamiliar with
the creature.

A rakshasa is about the same height and weight as a human.

Rakshasas speak Common, Infernal, and Undercommon

COMBAT
In close combat, which a rakshasa disdains as ignoble, ir
employs its sharp claws and powerful bite, Whenever possible.
it uses its other abilities to make such encounters. unnecessary.

Detect Thoughts (Su): A rakshasa can continuously use
detect thoughts as the spell (caster level 18th; Will DC 15
negates). It can suppress or resume this ability. as a free action.
The save DC is Charisma-based

Spells; A rakshasa casts spells as a 7th-level sorcerer.

Typical Sorcerer Spells Kni 7/5; save DC 13+ spell level):
O—detect magic, light, mage hand, message, read magic, resistance,
touch of fatigue; Lst—ch armor, magic missile, shield,
silent image; 2nd—bear's endurance, invisibility, Melf’s acid arrow;
3rd—haste, suggestion

Change Shape (Su); A rakshasa can assume any humanoid
form, or revert to its own form, as.a. standard action. In humanoid
form, a rakshasa loses its claw and bite attacks (although it often
equips itself with weapons and armor instead), A rakshasa remains
in one form_until it chooses.to.assume_anew.one. A change in
form cannot be dispelled, but the rakshasa reverts to its natural
form when killed. A true seeing spell reveals its natural form.

Skills: A rakshasa has a +4 racial bonus on Bluff and Disguise
checks,

‘When using change shape, a rakshasa gains an additional +10
circumstance bonus on Disguise checks, If reading an opponent's
mind, its circumstance bonus on Bluff and Disguise checks in-
creases by a further +4,

RAKSHASAS AS CHARACTERS
Rakshasa characters possess the following racial traits.
+2 Strength, +4 Dexterity, +6 Constitution, +2 Intelligence,
+2 Wisdom, +6 Charisma.
—Medium size.
A rakshasa’s base land speed is 40 feet
} Darkvision out 10.60 feet,

—Racial Hit Dice: A rakshasa begins with seven levels
sider, which provide 7d8 Hit Dice, a base attack bonus of +
base saying throw bonuses of Fort +5, Ref +5, and Will +5

—Racial Skills: A rakshasa's outsider levels give it skill points.

¢ the very embodiment of evil. Few beings

 

 

nun (6/7;

   

 

   

arm person, 1

 

 

      

out
and

 

     

Rakshasa

equal to 10 x (8 + Int modifier), Its class skills are Bluff, Disguise,

Listen, Move Silently, Perform, Sense Motive, and Spot. A rak

shasa has a +4racial bonus on Bluff and Disguise checks, and it can

gain further bonuses by using change shape

checks) and detect thoughts (+4 on Bluff and Disguise checks
—Racial Feats: A rakshasa’s outsid
— +9 natural armor bonus.

‘Natural Weapons: Bite (1d6) and 2 claws (1d4

Detect Thoughts (Su): The save DC is 13 + the character's Cha
modifier,

Spells: A rakshasa character casts spells as a 7th-level sor
cerer. If the character takes additional levels of sorcerer, these
levels stack with the rakshasa’s base spellcasting ability for spells
known, spells per day, and other effects dependent on caster
level. For example, a rakshasa 2nd-level sorcerer has the same
spells known, spells per day, and caster level as any other 9th
level sorcerer. A rakshasa character likewise uses the sum of its
racial spellcasting levels and class levels to determine the abili
ties of its familiar

—Special Qualities (see above): Change shape, damage. reduc
tion 15/good and piercing, spell resistance equal to 27 + class
levels.

-Automatic Languages. Common, Infernal, Bonus Languages
Sylvan, Undercommon.

Favored Class: Sorcerer

—Level adjustment

 

+10 on Disguise

 

er levels give it th

 

 

 
