Positive Energy Lash (Su); A ravid can make.a touch attack ot = ee
hit with a claw or tail slap artack to infuse a target swith posi (
tive energy. The energy produces an unpleasant tingle in

living creatures, and against undead foes (even incor 7 Ravid
poreal ones) it deals 2d10 points of damage. .f 5 { 4 mm

 

 

Animate Objects (Su): Once per round

 

   

       

random object within 20 feet of a ravid animates as
though by the spell animate objects (caster level 20th’ >) P Skills:
These objects defend the ravid to the best of their ab ren +8
ity, but the rayid isnit intelligent enough.to.employ elat . w

rate tactics with them. ¥y re Feats: Awesome low,

 

      

or resume flight as a i x wed Bull Rush, Power Attack
% Environment: Cold desert
Organization: Solitary
Challenge Rating:
Treasure: None
oP -Alignment: Usually neutral
Advancement: 8-14 HD (Huge); 15-21 HD (Gargantuan
Level Adjustment; —

Flight (Su): A ravid can.c
free action. A rast that loses this ability falls and cai

perform only a single action (either a move action
or an attack action) each round. nm
Feats; A ravid has the Multiattack feat even
/

through it does not have the requisite three
natural weapons

 
  

 

     

 

 

 

   

     

    

      

REMORHAZ ™ $~

oe The beast looks like a huge worm with dozens of insectoid legs,
Huge Magical Beast ~ faceted eyes, and a wide mouth brimming with jagged teeth. The back
Hit Dice: 7d10+35 (73 hp) of the head bristles with a pair of winglike fins.
Initiative: +1
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), burrow 20 ft The remorhaz is an arctic monster, an aggressive predator that
Armor Class; 20 (~2 size, +1 Dex, +11 natural), touch 9, burrows through ice and earth.

flat-footed 19 Although wild remorhazes prey on frost giants (as well as polar
(Base Attack/Grapple: 7/423 bears, elk, and deer), the giants occasionally train or entice these
Attack: Bite +13 melee (2d8 beasts to guard their lairs,
Full Attack: Bite +13 melee (2d8+12 A remorhaz is whitish-blue in color but pulses with a reddish
Space/Reach: 15 {t,/10 ft glow from the heat.its body produces. The creature isa little more.
Special Attacks: Improved grab, swallow wh than 20 feet long, with a body about 5 feet wide. It weighs about
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft,, heat, low-light vision, 10,000 pour

tremorsense 60 ft. Remothazes cannot speak

Saves: Fort +10, Ref +6, Will +
Abilities: Str 26, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 10

 

mothazes hide under the snow and ice until they hear move

 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

ment above them, then attack from below and sur
q prise prey,

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this
must hit an opponent least one size category smaller than
itself with its bite attack. It. can then attempt to start a grap
i ple as.a free action without provoking an attack of ‘opportunity

If itw grapple check, it establishes a hold and can
attempt to swallow the opponent the following r

Swallow Whole (Ex): When a remorhaz begins its turn with
a grappled opponent in its mouth, it can swallow that opponent
with a.successful grapple check, Once inside, the opponent
takes 2d8+12 points of bludgeoning damage plus 8dé points

a remorhaz

 

 

ns the

 

 

 

 

 

   

lowed creature can cut its way out by using a lig
piercing weapon to deal 25 points of damage to the gizzard
AC.15), Once the creanu its, muscular action closes the hol
another swallowed opponent must cut its own way ¢
morhaz's interior can hold 2 Large, 4
8 Small, 32 Tiny, 128 Diminutive, or
$12 Fine or smaller opponents
Heat (Ex): An enraged remorhaz
generates heat so intense that any
thing touching its body takes dé
points of fire damage, Creatures
striking a remorhaz with natural
attacks or unarmed attacks are subject
to this damage, bur creatures strikin
with melee weapons do not take damage
from the remorhaz's heat. This heat can melt
or char weapons; any weapon that strikes a

   

 

 

  

 

 

 

Remorbaz

 
