  
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
       

Medium Undead (Incorporeal)

Hit Dice: 7d12 (45 hp,

Initiative: +

Speed: 40 fr. (8 squares), fly 80 ft. (pe

Armor Class; 15 (+3 Dex, +2

Base Attack/Grapple: +3,

Attack: Incorporeal touch +6 melee (1d8 plus energy drain

Full Attack: Incorporeal touch +6 melee (1d8 plus energy drain

Space/Reach: § ft./5 ft

Special Attacks: Energy drain, create spawn

Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., incorporeal traits, +2 tum
resistance, sunlight powerlessness, undead traits, unnatural aura

Saves: Fort +2, Ref +5, Will

Abilities: Str —, Dex 16,Con —, Int 14, Wi

Skills: Hide +13, Intimidate +12, Knowledge (re +12,
Listen +14, Search +12, Spot +14, Survival +2 (+4 followi
tracks)

Feats; Alertness, Blind-Fight, Improved Initiative

Environment: Any land and underground

Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or

m (6-11

Challenge Rating: 7

Treasure: None

Alignment; Always lawful evil

Advancement: 8-14 HD
(Medium:

Level Adjustment:

 

  

   

 

 

  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
    

 

 

swa

 

This entity looks like a human,
but with a diaphanous and faint.
ly Juminous body.

Spectres are incorporeal u
dead often mistaken

ghosts, They haunt the places
where they died, retaining their

 

sentience but now hating all living
things.

 

pectre looks much as it did in lif

and can be easily recognized by those who

knew the individual or have seen the individ

ual's face ina painting ora drawing. In many cases, the

evidence of a violent death is visible on its body. The chill of death

lingers in the air around spectres and in the places they haunt
A spectre is roughly human-sized and is weightless.

 

 

 

 

COMBAT
Un close combat a spectre attacks with its numbing, life-d
touch It makes full use of its incorporeal nature, moving thi
walls, ceilings, and floors as it attacks,

Energy Drain (Su); Living creatures hit by a spectre’s incorpo-
real touch attack gain two negative levels, The DC is 15 for the For
titude save to remoye.a negative level. The save DC is Charisma
based. For each such negative level bestowed, the spectre gains $
temporary hit points

Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a spectre becor
a spectre in id¢ rounds, Spawn are.under the command of the
spectre that created them and remain enslaved until its death

(They.do not possess any of the abilities they had in life
|—Unnatural Aura (Su); Animals, whether wild or domesticated,
ican sense the unnatural presence of a spectre at a distance of 30
feet, They do not willingly approach nearer than that and panic if
forced to do so; they remain panicked as long as they are within
that range.

 

aining

 

   

ough

 

 

  

 

 

   

RE

flection), touch 15, flat-footed 13)

Sunlight Powerlessness (Ex): Spectres are powerless in natu
ral sunlight (not merely a daylight spell) and flee from it. A spectre
caught in sun! d only a single move |

 

 

t.cannot attack and can t
orattack action in around.

    

—__ ——— ——SPBINX

Sphinxes are enigmatic creatures with great, feathery wings and
leonine bodies. All sphinxes are territorial, but the more intelli
gent ones can differentiate between deliberate intrusion and tem:
porary or inadvertent trespass.
A typical sphinx is about
pounds.
Sphinxes speak Sphinx, Common, and Draconic

     

 

 

et long and

 

eighs abour 800

 

Most sphinxes fight on the ground, using their wings to hel
|them pounce much as lions do. If outnumbered by earthbound
kes wing and attacks on the fly

ircan make a
full attack, including two rake attacks,

Rake (Ex): A sphinx that pounces onto a
creature.can make two rake attacks with its
hind legs. Each sphinx’s description pro:
vides its attack bonus and damage.

ANDROSI

Large Magical Beast

Hit Dice: 12d10+48 (114 hp

Initiative:

Speed: 50 ft. (10 squares), fly 80 ft
poor

Armor Class: 22 (~1 size, +13 nat:
ral), rouch 9, flat-footed : 22

Base Attack/Grapple: +12/+23

Attack: Claw +18 melee (2d4+7

Full Attack: 2 claws +18 melee

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

Space/Reach: 10 f./5 ft
Special Attacks: Pounce, rake 2d4+3, roar
spells
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 f
vision
Saves: Fort Ref +8, Will +7
Abilities: Str 25, Dex 10, Con 19, Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 17
Skills; Intimidate
Spot +18, Survival +18
Feats: Alertness, Cleave, Great Cleave, Flyby Attack, Power
Attack, Track
Environment: Warm deserts
Organization: Solitary
Challenge Rating: 9
Treasure; Standard.
Alignment: Always chaotic good
Advancement: 13-18 HD (Large); 19-36 HD (Huge
Level Adjustment: +5 (cohort

 

low-light

  

   

 

+18, Listen +18,

 

Knowledge (any 0

 

This creature is bigger than a ridin

falcon wings, and a humanoid face

  

horse ond has a tawny lion body, great

 

These sphinxes are always male. Androsphin:
generally good-natured, bu can be savage.

Though ourwardly gruff and bad-tempered, androsphinxes
have noble hearts, and are a litrle bit shy. They appreciate smal
courtesies, but seldom admit it, and praise ma
uncomfortable.

 

    

 

s them feel

 
