Saves: Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +1

Abilities: Str 3, Dex 19, Con 10, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 6
Skills: Hide +14, Listen +4, Spot +4

Feats: Alertness, Weapon Finesse *

Environment: Warm marshes

Organization: Colony (2-4), flock (5~8), or storm (9-14)
Challenge Rating: 1/2

‘Treasure: None

(Alignment: Always neurral

Advancement: —

Level Adjustment: —

This nasty-looking creature seems to be a cross between a bat and a giant
mosquito. It has membranous bat wings, a short furry body, eight jointed
legs that end in sharp pincers. and a needlelike proboscis,

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Stirges are batlike creatures that feed on the blood of living beings.
While just one
jposes little danger
to most adventurers,

multiple stirges can bea for-
midable threat.

A stirge’s coloration ranges from
rust-red to reddish-brown, with a
dirty yellow underside. The
proboscis is pink
at the tip, fading to
gray_at its base.

Astirge’s body is about 1 foot
Jong, with a wingspan of about 2
feet. It weighs about 1 pound.

COMBAT
\A stirge attacks by landing on a victim, find
ing.a. vulnerable spot, and plunging its proboscis
into the flesh. This is a touch attack and can target only.
Small or larger creatures.

Attach (Ex): Ifa stirge hits with a rouch attack, it uses its
eight pincers to latch onto the opponent's body, An
attached stirge is effectively grappling its prey. The
stirge loses its Dexterity bonus to AC and has an AC
of 12, but holds on with great tenacity. Stirges have a +12
racial bonus on grapple checks (already figured into the Base
Attack/Grapple.entry above).

An attached stirge can be struck with a weapon or grappled
itself. To remove an attached stirge through grappling, the oppo-
nent mustachieve a pin against the stirge,

Blood Drain (Ex): A stirge drains blood, dealing 1d¢ points of
Constitution damage in any round when it begins its turn

jattached to a victim. Once it has dealt 4 points of Constitution
idamage, it detaches and flies off to digest the meal. If its victim
dies before the stirge'’s appetite has been sated, the stirge detaches
and seeks a new target.

——— RM),

Swarms are dense masses.of Fine, Diminutive,.or Tiny. creatures
that would not be particularly dangerous in.small groups, but
can be terrible foes when gathered in sufficient numbers, While
a single cloud of locusts. might actually be hundreds of feet
jacross, for game_purposes a swarm is defined as.a single creature
\with a_space.of 10 fee-—gigantic hordes of bats or locusts are
actually composed of dozens of swarms in close proximity. A
swarm has a single pool of Hit Dice and hit points, a single ini-
tiative modifier, a single speed, and a single Armor Class. It
makes saving throws as.a single creature.

Many. different creatures can mass as swarms; bat swarms,

    

 

=

centipede swarms, hellwasp swarms, locust swarms, rat swarms,,
and spider swarms are described here. The swarm’s type varies |
with the nature of the component creature (most are animals or|
vermin), but all swarms have the swarm subtype. j
Aswarm of Tiny creatures consists of 300 nonflying creatures or
14,000 flying creatures. A swarm of Diminutive creatures consists
of 1,500 nonflying creatures or 5,000 flying creatures. A swarm of
Fine creatures consists of 10,000 creatures, whether they are flying.
or not. Swarms of nonflying creatures include many more crea-
tures than could normally fit in a 10-foot square based on their,
normal space, because creatures in a swarm are packed tightly |
together and generally crawl over each other and their prey when.
moving or attacking. Larger swarms are represented by multiples
of single swarms. A large swarm is completely shapeable, though |
it usually remains contiguous.

QOMBAT

{In order to attack, a single swarm moves into opponents’ spaces,

which provokes an attack of opportunity, It can occupy the same.,
space.as a creature of any size,
since it crawls.all over its prey, but
remains.a.creature with a.10-foot,
space. Swarms never make attacks
of opportunity, but they can pro-
yoke attacks of opportunity.
Unlike other creatures with a 10-foot
space, a swarm is shapeable. It can occupy any,
four contiguous squares, and it.can squeeze |
through any space large enough to contain one.
of its.component creatures (for.example,a bat,
swarm.can squeeze through a space that a Tiny
creature could squeeze through).

  

Vulnerabilities of Swarms
‘Swarms are extremely difficult to fight with physical
attacks, However, they have a few special yulnerabil-
ities, as follows:
A lit torch swung as an improvised weapon
deals 1d3 points of fire damage per hit.
A weapon with aspecial ability such as flam-
ing or frost deals its full energy damage with
each hit, even if the weapon's normal

damage cant affect the swarm.

A litlantern.can be used as.a.thrown weapon, dealing 1d4 points

of fire damage to all creatures in squares adjacent to where it breaks.

BAT SWARM

Diminutive Animal (Swarm)
Hit Dice: 38 (13 hp)
Initiative
Speed: 5 ft. (1 square), fly 40 ft. (good)

Armor Class: 16 (+4 size, +2 Dex), touch 14, flat-footed 12
Base Attack/Grapple: +2/—

Attack: Swarm (1d6)

Full Attack: Swarm (1d6)

Space/Reach: 10 ft,/0 ft.

Special Attacks: Distraction, wounding

Special Qualities: Blindsense 20 ft,, half damage from slashing

and piercing, Jow-light vision, swarm traits

Saves; Fort +3, Ref +7, Will +3

Abilities: Str 3, Dex.15, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha4

Skills: Listen +11, Spot+11

Feats: Alertness, Lightning Reflexes

Enyironment: Temperate deserts
Organization: Solitary, flight (2-4 swarms), or colony (11-20

swarms).
Challenge Rating: 2

 

 
