(

 

)MBAT
The tarrasque attacks with i

   

horns, and tail.

s are treated as epic weapons Huge Plant

¢ reduction, Hit Dice: 9d8+54 (94 hp
b Initiative: -1

Speed:

s claws, teed!

   

   
 
 
 

 

20 ft, (4 squares

 

   

 
  
  
  
 
    
  
  

a acca critical hit, Armor Class: 16 (~2 size, 1 Dex, +9 nat touch 7, flar-footed
Frightful Presence (Su); The tarrasque ca: r by Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+23
g or attacking, Affected creatures mu me Attack: Bite +13 melee (2d8+9,

   

and 2 rendrils +8 melee
idé+4
Full Attack: Bi

2tendrils +8

 

36 Will save or become shaken, remaining in th
s they remain with 60 feet of the tarrasque. The

  

aslor
save DC is Charisma-based,

Improved Grab (Ex): ‘To use this ability, the
tarrasque must hit a Huge or smaller oppo-

 

te +13 melee

   
     

   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  

   

 

nent with its bite attack. It can then 15 ft
attempt fo start a grapple as a free Tendriculos | Attacks: Im prov
action without provoking an attack ab cualpsts reall sabcle

     

 

of opportunity. If it wins the grap Special Qualities: Low-light
pl ck, itestablishes a hold and ant traits, regeneration 10
can try to swallow the foe the follow Saves: Fort +2, Will +4
ing round. Abilities; Str 28, Dex 9, Con 22, Int 3,
Rush (Ex): Once per minute, the Wis 8,Cha3
moving tarrasque Skills: Hide +9, Listen +1, Move Silently
+1, Spot +
Feats: Alertness,
Stelathy
Environment: Temperate forests
Organization: Solitary
Challenge Rating: 6
Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% goods; 50%.
item:
\ Alignment: Always neutral
Qw Advancement: 10-16 HD
Huge); 17-27 HD
Gargantuan
Level Adjustment

  

 

normally slow

 

   

can move at a speed of 150 fe

Swallow Whole (Ex)
tarrasque can try to swallow
grabbed opponent of Huge or
smaller size by making a suc

ron Will, Power Attack,

   

   

apple check. Once

    

inside, the opponent takes

2d8+8 points of crushing

8+6 points of

 

damage plus 2
acid damage f

 

      

he tarrasque’s dige
A swallowed creature

ut its way out by dealing

 

juices,

points of damage to

 

s digestive t

 

rasq

    

Once the creature exits, muscu:

branches. The mass has o huge

 

lar action closes the hole; anothe

 

filled with

 

opening.
branche:

  

swallowed opponent must cu

 

   

The arrasque’ gullet can hold 2 Huge, 8 Large, 32 Medium, 128

 

     

   

     

   

 

      
  

Small, or 512 Tiny or smaller creatures The tendriculos is a plant that. may have been mutated by fou!
Carapace (Ex); The tarrasque’s armorlike carapace is ex jonally magi may have originated on another plane of existence—or

tough and highly reflective, deflecting all rays, lines, cones, and ever possibly both of these theories are tr

magic missile spells. There 30% chance of reflecting any such A tendriculos can rear up to a height of 15 feet. It weighs about

effect back at the caster; otherwise, it is merely negated, Check for 3,500 pounds,

reflection before rolling to overcome the creature's spell resistance The tendriculos is best knowr ability to grow and regrow

   

   
   

Regeneration (Ex); No form of attack deal:

   

wanes Whole new leaves and vines

tes, A tendriculos accomplishes this by

lethal damage to ts vegetable body extrem:

 

 

ls a saving appear in just a few min
comin against a disintegrate spell or a death effect. If the tarrasque consuming vast quantities of meat,
fails its save against_a spell or effect that would kill it instantly Animals and other plant creaturesare unnerved by the presence

     

hin the

   

stead deals of atendriculos; they avoid it an

 

Je spel
nonlethal damage equal to the creature's full norm

or 868 hp), The tarrasque is immune to effects that produce incur

such as those mentioned above

     

ny place it has been

hit points +10 last 24 hours,

 

     

     
             

         

       

   

      

able or bleeding wounds, such as mummy.rot.a sword with the COMBAT
wounding special ability, or a clay golems cursed wound. ability Prowling deep forests or waiting in vegetated areas
tarrasque can be slain only by raising its nonlethal damage nothing more than a small hillock

total to its full normal hit points +10 (or 868 hit points) and using showing no fear. Ir attempts to swallow as much flesh.as it.can,as
a.wish or minacle spel to keep it dead quickly.as.it.can

Ifthe ta rasque loses a b or body part, the Improved Grab (Ex); To use this tendricul
grows in 1d6 minutes (the detached piece dies and d creature at least one size smaller than itself with its bite attack. It car
mally). The creature can reattach the severed member instantly by then attempt to start a grapple as a free action without provoking
holding it to the stump. atack of opportunity. If t wins the grapple check, it establishes a

_ Skills; The tarrasque has a +8 racial bonus on Listen-and Spat hold and can try.to swallow the opponent in the following round.

   

   

Atend

 

culos can also use its improved grab ability on a tend:

 
