  
    
  

 
    

Purity of Body (Ex): Immunity.to all diseases except for magi-
cal diseases such as mummy rot and lycanthropy.
Shadow Jump (Sp): Travel instantaneously between shadows as a
dimension door spell, up to 20 feet per day.
Slow Fall (Ex): A monk within arm's reach of a wall takes)
damage as if the fall were 40 feet shorter than it actually is. +
Still Mind (Ex): +2 bonus on saves against enchantment spells)
jand effects.
Wholeness of Body (Su): Cure up to.18 hit points of her own,
» wounds each day. +
Possessions: +2 keen kama, +1 frost sling, 10 +1 sling bullets, ring of pro-|
[ection +2, bracers of armor.+3, periapt.of Wisdom +4.

CREATING A VAMPIRE
“Vampire” is an acquired template that can be added to any
humanoid or monstrous humanoid creature (referred to hereafter
as the base creature),
A vampire uses all the base creature’ statistics and special abili-;
\ties.except.as noted here. |
Size and Type: The creature's type changes to undead (aug-|
mented humanoid or monstrous humanoid). Do not recalculate
base attack bonus, saves, or skill points. Size is unchanged.
Hit Dice: Increase all current and future Hit Dice to di2s.
Speed: Same as the base creature. If the base creature has a
swim speed, the vampire retains the ability to swim and is not vul-
nerable to immersion in running water (see below).

Armor Class: The base creature's natural armor bonus im-
Lproves by +6,

Attack: A vampire retains all the attacks of the base creature
and also gains aslam attack if ir didn’t already have one. If the base

{creature can use weapons, the vampire retains this ability. A crea-
\ture with narural weapons retains those natural weapons. A vam-
pire fighting without weapons uses either its slam attack or its pri-
\mary_natural weapon (if it has any). A vampire armed with a
weapon uses its slam or a.weapon, as it desires.

Full Attack: A vampire fighting without weapons uses either its
slam attack (see above) or its natural weapons (if it has any).1farmed.
with a weapon, it usually uses the weapon as its primary attackalong ,
with a slam or other natural weapon as.a natural secondary.attack..

Damage: Vampires have slam attacks. If the base creature does |
not have this attack form, use the appropriate damage value from
the table below according to the vampire’s size. Creatures that
have other kinds.of natural weapons retain their old damage
values or use the appropriate value from the table below,
whichever is berter.

 

Size Damage
Fine 1
Diminutive 1d2
Tiny 163
Small 144
Medium. 1d6
Large 148.
Huge 2d6
Gargantuan 248,
Colossal 4d6

Special Attacks: A vampire retains all the special attacks of
the base creature and gains those described below. Saves have a
DC of 10 + 1/2 vampire's HD + vampire’s Cha modifier unless
noted otherwise.

Blood Drain (Ex): A vampire can suck blood from.a living victim
with its fangs by making a successful grapple check, If it pins the

}foe, it drains blood, dealing 1d¢ points of Constitution drain each

{round the pin is maintained. On each such successful attack, the

|vampire gains 5 temporary hit points.

Children. of the Night (Su): Vampires command the lesser crea-
tures of the world and once per day can call forth 1d6+1 rat,
swarms, 1d¢+1 bat swarms, or a pack of 346 wolves as a standard.

  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  

   

action. (If the base creature is not terrestrial, this power might
summon other creatures of similar power.) These creatures arrive
in 2d6 rounds and serve the vampire for up to 1 hour.

Dominate (Su): A vampire can crush an opponent's will just by.
jlooking onto his or her eyes. This is similar to a gaze attack, except
jthat the vampire must_use a standard action, and those merely
jlooking at it are not affected. Anyone the vampire targets must
succeed on a Will save or fall instantly under the vampire’s influ-
ence as though by a dominate person spell (caster level 12th), The.
-ability has a range of 30 feet.

Create Spawn (Su): A humanoid or monstrous humanoid slain by
a vampires energy drain rises as a vampire spawn (see.the Vampire.
Spawn entry, page 253) 1d¢ days after burial,

If the vampire instead drains the victim's Constitution. to.0.or
lower, the victim returns as a spawn if it had4 or less HD and asa,
vampire if it had 5 or more HD. In either case, the new vampire or

\spawn is under the command of the vampire that created it and
{remains enslaved until its master’s destruction. At any given time
\a_yampire may have enslaved spawn.totaling no more than twice,
its own Hit Dice; any spawn it creates that would exceed this limit
are created as free-willed vampires or vampire spawn. A vampire
that is enslaved may create and enslave spawn_of its. own, soa
master vampire can control. a number of lesser vampires in this
fashion. A vampire may voluntarily free an enslaved spawn in or-
der to enslave a new spawn, bur once freed, a vampire or vampire
spawn. cannot be enslaved again.

Energy Dmin (Su): Living creatures hit by avampire's slam attack.
(or any other natural weapon the vampire might possess) gain two.
negative levels. For each negative level bewtowed, the vampire |
gains 5 temporary hit points. A vampire can use its energy drain)
ability once per round. }

Special Qualities: A vampire retains all the special qualities of
the base creature and gains those described below. }

Alternate Form (Su): A vampire can assume the shape of a bar,
dire bat, wolf, or dire wolf as a standard action, This ability is simi-
lar to a polymorph spell cast by a 12th-level character, except that
the vampire does not regain hit points for changing form and
must choose from among the forms mentioned here. While in its
alternate form, the vampire loses its natural slam attack and domi-
nate ability, but it gains the natural weapons and extraordinary
special attacks of its new form. It can.remain in that form until it
assumes another or until the next sunrise, (If the base creature is
not terrestrial, this power might allow other forms.)

Damage Reduction (Su):_A vampire has damage reduction
10/silver and magic. A vampire's natural weapons are treated as
magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.

Fast Healing (Ex): A vampire heals 5 points of damage each
round so long as it has ar least 1 hit point. If reduced to 0 hit points
in combat, it automatically assumes gaseous form and attempts to

escape. It must reach its coffin home within 2 hours or be utterly
destroyed. (It can travel up to.nine miles in 2 hours.) Any addi-
tional damage dealt to.a vampire forced into gaseous form has no
effect. Once at rest in its coffin, a vampire is helpless. It regains 1
hit point after 1 hour, then is no longer helpless and resumes heal-
ing atthe rate of 5 hit points per round.

Gascous Form (Su): As a standard action, a vampire can assume
gaseous form at will as the spell (caster level Sth), but itcan.remain.,
gaseous indefinitely and has a fly speed of 20 feet with perfect
maneuverability. }

Resistances (Ex): A vampire has resistance to cold 10.and electric-
ity 10,

Spider. Climb (Ex): A vampire can. climb sheer surfaces as though |
with a spider climb spell.

Thom Resistance (Ex): A. vampire has +4 turn_resistance.

Abilities: Increase from the base creature as follows: Str +6,
Dex +4, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +4. As an undead creature, a vampire
has no Constitution score.

  

 

 
