Ability score guidelines for some creature. types are given
below.

Elemental: Air and fire elementals often have high Dexterity
scores for their size; earth and water elementals often have high
Constitution scores,

Fey: Fey often have high Dexterity scores for their size.

Giant: Giants often have high Strength and Constitution scores
for their size.

  

Magical Beast: Magical beasts often have high Dexterity scores}

for their size.

Ooze: Oozes often have low Dexterity and high Constitution
iscores for their size.

Outsider: Outsiders maybe supernaturally quick and agile,
despite their size. Outsiders have the Dexterity range of a creature
three sizes smaller than their actual size.

Plant: Plants often have low Dexterity and high Constitution

scores for their size.

Undead: Undead often have high Strength and Dexterity scores

Hor their size.

| Minimum HD: Creatures of size Small o larger should be.
assigned a certain. number of Hit Dice as a minimum to reflect |

their mass, A Gargantuan creature with 2 Hit Dice would be larger
than an elephant, but would have the hit points of a wolf.

Maximum HD: Creatures of size Tiny or smaller shouldn't
have a very large number of Hit Dice, simply because they dont
have the necessary body mass to have the sort of innate toughness
that a large number of racial Hit Dice would suggest. If you want
to create very small creatures with lots of Hit Dice, you might be
better off to keep the creature's racial Hit Dice low and assign it

|some number of character class levels instead.

Slam or Tentacle: The suggested damage value for any blunt
lattack the creature might have (punches, constriction, slaps, and
the like),

Bite: The suggested damage value for any.attack the creature
delivers.with its mouth or teeth,

Claw or Sting: The suggested damage value for any attack the
creature makes by scratching, tearing, raking, or poking with an
appendage.

Gore or Tai
creature makes with horns, antlers, or a head butt, A tail slap or-tail
whip falls in this category, too.

SUBTYPE
A monster associated with an element, form of energy, or the like
also gets a parenthetical subtype. Applying a subtype can indicate
a subgroup within a larger type, such as undead (incorporeal)
Some subtypes link creatures that share characteristics, such as
humanoid (goblinoid). Other subtypes.categorize members of dif-
ferent types that share common characteristics For example,
|white dragons and frost giants belong to the dragon and giant
Ltypes, respectively, but they are also of the cold subtype.
Some common subtypes that affect a creature's abilities are
briefly described below. Details are given in Chapter 7: Glossary,
Air: The creature (usually an elemental or outsider) possesses
an innate bond to the Elemental Plane of Air.
Angel: The creature belongs to one of the angel races and
shares common characteristics with other angels,
Aquatic: The creature breathes water, not air,
Archon: The creature belongs.to. one of the archon races and
shares. common characteristics with other archons.
Augmented: The creature's type has been changed by a.tem-
iplate.
Baatezu: The creature is a devil that belongs to the baatezu race
and shares common characteristics with other baarezu.
Chaos: The creature (usually an outsider) possesses an innate
bond to the chaotic-aligned Outer Planes, which determines how.
ir is affected by certain spells.

 

The suggested damage value for any attack the)

Cold: The creature has immunity to cold, but is vulnerable to,

fire attacks.

Earth: The creature (usually an elemental or outsider) pos-)

sesses an innate bond.to the Elemental Plane of Earth.

Eladrin: The creature is a.celestial that belongs to the eladrin

race and shares common characteristics with other eladrins.

Evil: The crearure (usually an outsider) possesses an innate
bond to the evil-aligned Outer Planes, which determines how itis
affected by cettain spells,

Extraplanar: The creature (usually an clemental or outsider) is.

not native to the Material Plane, which determines how. it is.af-
fected by spells that banish or dismiss extraplanar creatures.
Fire: The creature has immunity to fire, bur is vulnerable to
cold attacks.
Goblinoid: The creature belongs to one of the goblin races.
Good: The creature (usually an outsider) possesses an innate
{bond to the good-aligned Outer Planes, which determines how it
jis affected by certain spells.

 

Guardinal: The creature is a celestial that belongs to the guardi-.

nal race and shares common characteristics with other guardinals,

Incorporeal: The creature is completely intangible on the
Material Plane and can pass through solid objects.

‘Lawful: The creature (usually an outsider) possesses an innate
bond to the lawful-aligned Outer Planes, which determines how it
is affected by certain spells.

Native: Despite its outsider type, the creature is actually a
native of the Material Plane.

Reptilian: The creature is a humanoid with reptilelike charac-

teristics.

Shapechanger: The creature possesses an innate ability co

change shape or assume an alternate form,

Swarm: The creature is actually a swarm of hundreds or.thou-;

sands of very small creatures.
Tanar'ri: The creature is a demon that belongs to the tanar'ri
race and shares common characteristics with other tanar'i.
‘Water: The creature (usually an elemental or outsider) pos-
sesses an innate bond to the Elemental Plane of Water.

HIT DICE
This entry ina statistics block provides the numberand size (number
of sides) of Hit Dice and any bonus hit points. The size of the dice is
derived from the creature's type, The number of bonus hit points is a
function of the creature's Hit Dice and Constitution score.

A parenthetical listing of the creature's average hit points fol-
lows the Hit Dice listing. To calculate a creature's average hit
points, take the average value of each Hit Die, apply the creature's
Constitution modifier (a creature always has at least 1 hit point per
Hit Die), multiply by the number of Hit Dice, and round down.

Averace Hit Die VALUES

Die Size Average
1d4 25
106. 35.
148 45
1410 5.5
1612 6s

Hit Dice and Target CR: In general, a crearure’s Hit Dice!
should be equal to.or greater than the target CR you've set for}
the creature, but. not more than three times the target CR. For!

example, if you are designing a CR $ monster, you should prob-
ably assign at least 5 Hit Dice, but not more than 15 Hit Dice tf
your monster has too few Hit Dice for its Challenge Rating, it
swonit have staying power comparable to other monsters of that
CR. if your monster has too many Hit Dice, not only will it have
jmore hit points than.a creature of that CR should have, bur it
will also havea betrer attack bonus and saving throws than

 

 
