ATTACK
Decide what attack forms the creature uses in melee.and ranged
combat and determine the monster's attack bonus with each
attack. The attacks you might decide:to give a creature include:

—Melee weapon (possibly multiple melee weapons)

—Ranged weapon.

—Bite
|—Claw or tentacle

—Slam

—Gore

—Touch attack

Attack Bonus: A creatures attack bonus consists of the follow-
ing components: base attack bonus (as determined by the crea-
ture’s type and Hit Dice), size modifier, and Strength modifier for
melee attacks or Dexterity modifier for ranged attacks, You may
select feats or equipment for the monster that alter the creature's
jartack bonus swith a particular weapon; for example, if you give the
\monster a +2 longswond, you will increase its attack bonus with that}
weapon by.2 points. Similarly, Weapon Focus or Weapon Finesse}
[might alter the creature's attack bonus. 4

The Attack entry in a statistics block gives the attack and
damage bonus for each of the monster's attacks, if the monster
decides to use a standard action to make a single attack. You do not
need to account for secondary weapons or multiple attacks with
the same weapon when you describe the monster's individual
attack options here—any weapon the monster uses to make a
single attack as a standard action gets the monster's full attack
bonus and damage bonus for Strength.

Damage: Assign damage values to each of the creature's natural
attacks. The base. damage value depends.on the creature's size and
ithe type of attack, as shown on Table 5=1.

Particularly rough or weak creatures might have higher or
lower damage values. In general, you can vary.the power of amon-
ster's attacks by moving up or down one or two lines on the rable.
For example,a Medium monster's bite usually has a damage value
of 146, but it could be as little as 13 or as much as 2d6, Use the
1d3 value for.a creature with a very small or weak mouth, or the
2d6 value to represent a creature with large or very powerful,
mouth. +

Natural Weapons: A creature's attack gets the creature's full)
damage bonus from Strength, or 1-1/2rimes the Strength bonus if,
it is the creature's sole natural weapon.

If any of the creature's attacks also have some special effect
other than damage (poison, disease, energy drain, paralyzation,
and so forth), note it after the attack’s hit point damage—for
example, sting (146 plus poison).

Critical Hits: Unless you decide otherwise, a creature's natural
attack threatens a critical hit on aroll of natural 20 and deals
double damage if a critical hit is confirmed. Very few monsters

‘have better than normal threat ranges or critical multipliers with
their natural weapons,

Weapon-Using Creatures: Creatures that use weapons follow all
the rules that characters do; 1wo-handed weapons gain 1-1/2 times
the creature's Strength bonus on damage rolls.

Attack Bonus and Target CR: Much like Armor Class, a mon-
ster’s attack bonus may_make it unplayable at the Challenge
Rating you intend. A monster swithouta high enough attack bonus
poses no threat to the PCs, and.a monster with too high an attack
bonus never misses.

As a guideline, arrange the components of a.monster's attack
bonus so.that its attack bonus with its primary weapon is equal to

\(target CR X 1.5) + 2. For example, if you are building a CR 5 mon-
ster, an appropriate attack bonus would be (5 x 1.5).+ 2,.0r 9.5,
which comes.out.to.an attack bonus of +9 or +10. This guideline
.works best for monsters with few special attacks; if you expect
your monster will rely on special attacks rather than pure melee |
ability, a better guideline would be an attack bonus equal to (target,

CRX%1.5)—1.ACR5 monster of this sort would have an attack,
bonus of +6 or +7. j
Manipulating your monster's attack bonus to fit the CR you,
haye.in mind is not quite as easy as manipulating Armor Class. You
.can change the creature's Hit Dice, since base attack bonus is
{derived from Hit Dice, but doing this will change several other
characteristics. The best way to fine-tune your monster at this step
is to change its Strength score (or Dexterity, for ranged attacks),
but watch out for creating ability scores that seem unusually low,
,or high for a creature of the given size and type.

FULL ATTACK
In this step, you'll determine the monster's attack routine when it
uses a full-round action to make a full attack. This is based on the,
individual attacks the monster has available -to it (see Attack,
above), but you need to account for the difference between pri-
mary and secondary attacks,

Natural Weapons: In general, a creature attacks once with,
jeach natural weapon it has, For most monsters, that will be two.,
iclaws and a bite (or the other way around). Decide which of the

monster's natural weapons is its primary weapon. A monster
many have two ot more primary. weapons if it has two or more
of the same natural attack—for example, atreant attacks with
two slams,.one for each limb, and both are primary natural
weapons.

Primary. weapons use.a creature's full attack bonus, .no. matter.
how many primary weapons it has. The monster applies its full
Strength bonus on damage rolls with its primary natural weapons, |
or 1-1/2 times its Strength bonus if the monster has only one pri:
mary natural weapon (for example, a wolf's bite). ,

All other natural weapons are secondary attacks. Reduce the)
creature's attack bonus by 5 for all such attacks, no matter how.
many there are. Crearures with the Multiattack feat take only a=2
penalty on secondary attacks. A monster applies 1/2 its Strength
bonus on damage rolls with its secondary natural weapons.

Manufactured Weapons: Creatures that use weapons follow
all the rules characters that do, including multiple attacks with the
same weapon and penalties for using two weapons ar once.

Natural and Manufactured Weapons: If acreature has both
a manufactured weapon and natural weapons, it usually uses its
manufactured weapon as its primary.attack (and receives multi-
ple attacks with that.sveapon, if its base attack bonus is +6 or
higher), and uses its natural weapons as secondary attacks (-S
penalty.on attack rolls, and1/2 Strength bonus on damage rolls),
While a humanoid fighting with two weapons takes a2 penalty
(or worse).on its primary attack, a monster fighting with a hand-
held weapon and a natural weapon at the same times does not
take this penalty—the natural weapon is a secondary attack, and
that's all

SPECIAL ATTACKS

Decide what special attacks (if any) your monster has. A special
attack is anything the creature uses offensively to harm or hinder
another creature. Common special attacks include:

—Ability damage (temporary)

—Ability drain (permanent)

—Breath weapon

—Change shape

—Constrict

—Cursed wound =

—Disease

—Energy.drain (negative levels)

—Fear

—Gaze.

—Improved grab

—Paralysis.

—Poison.

  

 
