   
 
  
   
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
  
 
 

   
    
  
 
     

—Pounce
—Powerful charge
—Psionics

—Ray

 

pel
—Spell-like abilities
—Summon

—Swallow whole

—Trample

—Wounding

Most of these special attacks are described in detail in Chapter
7: Glossary, A number of monsters possess unusual special attacks
that are less common (for example, the mind flayer’s mind blast
yand extract attacks). In general, one or two special attacks for any.
,monster is enough—monsters usually don't get the chance to use|

[more than.a couple of special abilities in the course of a single en-.
jcounter, so creating a number of special attacks simply makes the,
monster more difficult to use in play.

Each special attack should include the type of saving throw the
attack allows (if any) and the DC of the save. The saving throw
type depends on the nature of the attack, as follows:

—Fortitude saving throws apply to attacks on the defender’s
vitality: poison, magic that causes instant death, level draining, or

\magic that causes physical transformation.
|_—Reflex saving throws apply to massive attacks such as a
\ wizard’ fireball or a damage-dealing breath weapon.

—Will saving throws apply to. mental influence and domina-

tion as well as any magical effect that doesnit fall into one of the
[previous two categories.

Calculating Saving Throw DCs

The formula for save DCs is: 10 + 1/2 the creature's Hit Dice + rel-
evant ability score modifier. The relevant ability score depends on.
the type of attack, as follows:

Strength: Any application of force, crushing, binding, or con-
striction. Example: trample.

Dexterity: Movement, movement restrictions, hitting with a
missile, entanglement. Example: entangle.

Constitution: Almost anything that comes from the creature's body,
such as poison or breath weapons, Examples: breath weapon, poison.

Intelligence: Usually not used to determine save DCs for mon-
sters’ special attacks. Possible uses: illusion effects.

Wisdom: Usually not used to. determine save. DCs for monsters’

 

 

 

 

     
 

special attacks, Possible uses: Mental or perception effects (except
charms and compulsions; see Charisma).

Charisma: Use Charisma for anything pitting the crearure's will,
against an opponent: gaze attacks, charms, compulsions, or energy.

idrain. The creature's Charisma modifier affects the save DC forany
»spell-like abilities it has (no matrer what form they take).

Also use Charisma for any DC that normally would be based on
an ability score the creature does not have. For example, undead
creatures have no Constitution score, so any poison attacks they.
have would use Charisma to determine the save DC.

SPECIAL QUALITIES

A special quality is any ability a creature can.use.to protect itself.
The Special Qualities entry also is the catch-all for anything the
creature might do or have that does not logically belong some-
where else, Common special qualities include:

—Blindsense

—Blindsight

—Damage reduction

—Fast healing

—Frightful presence

—Immunity.to energy or acertain attack form

—Regeneration

—Resistance to. energy

—Scent

—Spell immunity

—Spell resistance

—Subrype features (for example, cold subtype)

—Tremorsense.

—Turn resistance.

—Type traits (for example, construct traits)

These abilities are described in Chapter 7: Glossary. A number
of monsters have less common special qualities that are.not listed
here. As with special attacks, limit the number of special qualities
you give a monster, because you'll have an easier time running the
monster in play.

SAVING THROWS

Determine the creature's saving throw bonuses. The creature's base
saving throw bonuses depend on its type and Hit Dice. Include all
adjustments that apply to each save, provided they apply all the
time (such as ability score modifiers and racial bonuses). Condi-
tional saving throw bonuses should be noted in the creature's Spe-
cial Qualities entry and explained in the creature's description,

Saving Throws and Target CR: In general, a creature's good
saving throw bonus should be around (target CR X 1.5), while its

   

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

SPELL RESISTANCE AND DAMAGE REDUCTION
Too much spell resistance or damage reduction can make a monster
victually unbeatable at the Challenge Rating you're aiming for. Too little,
and the monster might as well not have any at all, since any character
will have the caster level or magic weaponry necessary to penetrate the
creature's defense.

Spell Resistance: If you choose to give your monster this ability,
you'll probably want to set the resistance number equal to the crea-
ture’s CR +11. This means that a character of a level equal to the crea-
ture’s will have a 50% chance to overcome the monster's spell resist-
ance (barring the Spell Penetration feat), For example, a 12th-level
character has a 50% chance to overcome spell resistance 23, so 23 is
a good spell resistance number for a CR 12 creature.

You may need to adjust a creature's spell resistance number after
you finally settle on a CR for the creature.

If you want a highly magic-resistant creature, set the monster's spell
resistance higher than CR + 11. For lesser resistance, set the spell

resistance lower. For each point of difference, you'll change the chance
of successfully overcoming spell resistance by 5%. For example, a 12th-
level caster has a 45% chance to overcome spell resistance 24, and no
chance to overcome spell resistance 33.

Damage Reduction: Assigning a damage reduction value can be
tricky. Setting the value too high can make a creature virtually immune
to physical attacks, On the other hand, most player characters carry
some magic weapons, so setting the value too low can result in an inef-
fective ability.

Recommended
Target CR Damage Reduction
0-2 None
ca] =
613 10
14-20 15

Remember, even if player characters can hurt the monster, lesser crea-
tures in the game world often cannot hurt the creature, nor can the
player character's cohorts or any creatures they summon.

 
