poor saving throws should be roughly equal.to its target. CR. For”

example, if you are designing a CR 6 monster, a. good save bonus of
+9 and a poor save bonus of +6 should give the monster a decent
chance to save against the player characters’ attacks without mak-
ing their attacks ineffectual

‘The easiest. way.to- manipulate a creature's save bonuses is.to
assign a feat that increases a saye bonus (for example, Iron Will), If
you don't want to give the monster the feat, but you still want to
increase the save bonus, then you need to adjust the ability score.
from which the save bonus is derived.

KILLS

Assign whatever skills you think the creature ought to have. The
number of skill points a creature has depends on its type, Hit Dice,
and Intelligence; see Table 5—4. Assume that any skill you choose
for the creature is a class skill, and each rank costs 1 skill point.
The maximum rank for any skill is the creature's Hit Dice + 3. A
creature with less than 1 Hit Die is treated as having 1 Hit Die for

 

the purpose of determining skill points and maximum skill rank.!

Taste 5-4: Skit POINTS BY MONSTER TYPE
Type ‘Skill Points

Aberration (2+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Animal (2+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Construct* (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Dragon (6 + Int modifier, minimym 1) x (HD+3)
Elemental (2+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)

Fey. (6 + Int modifier, minimum_1) x (HD+3)

 

 

| Giant (2+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
| Humangid** (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Magical beast {2+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
| Monstrous humanoid (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Ooze* {2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Outsider (8+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Plant® (2+ Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)
Undead* (4 + Int modifier, minimum.}) x.(HD+3)
Vermin® (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) x (HD+3)

* Mindless creatures receive no skill points or feats.
** Or by character class.

Itis important to consider your concept when assigning skills. Crea-

tures that live by hunting need Hide, Spot, and Listen, and probably
Move Silently. Creatures that use spells or spell-like abilities need
Concentration and probably Spellcraft, Creatures that do not have a
climb or swim speed may benefit from Climb or Swim. Skills such
as Balance.and Escape Artist can be useful for almost any creature.

A creature's final skill modifier consists of; skill ranks + ability
modifier + size modifier (for Hide) + movement mode modifier

(for Climb, Jump, or Swim) + racial bonuses (if any) + synergy
bonuses (if any) + armor. check modifier (if any). You may decide
\to purchase feats that change the creature's skill modifiers, too.

Conditional Bonuses; If the creature has conditional ability
adjustments, do not apply. them in the Skills entry, Instead, mark
the skill modifier with an asterisk and note the conditional modi-
fier in the creature's description.

Racial Skill Bonuses; Often a creature will need a better skill
modifier than its abilities and skill points allow, In such cases, it's a
good idea to assign it a racial bonus (which is effective all the time), or
a specific circumstance bonus, For example, most big cats get bonuses
on Hide and Move Silently checks, and even larger conditional
bonuses on Hide and Move Silently checks when they're in.the right

\termain, Theyid have a hard time surviving as predators without them,

FEATS

All monsters have a number of feats equal to 1+ (1 per 3 HD)
Monsters must meet the prerequisites for feats, just as characters
must. Lf your creature concept begs for a feat for which the crea-

ture does not qualify, consider altering the creature so that it.qual-,
ifies for the feat, or assign the feat as a bonus feat. (It is acceptable |
for a creature to have a bonus feat for which it does not meet the |
prerequisites.) 4
Assign feats with your creature concept in mind, just as you did
Lfor skills. For example, spelleasting creatures can benefit from
Combat Casting. Creatures that depend on their senses to locate
prey or alert them to danger can benefit from Alertness, Creatures
thar attack from ambush can use Improved Initiative, Any crea-,
ture can benefit from the feats that improve saying throws (Great,
Fortitude, Lightning Reflexes, and Iron Will), |
Weak creatures can often benefit from Weapon Finesse.
which allows a creature to use its Dexterity bonus.on.melee
attacks (very useful for Small, Tiny, and Diminutive creatures).
Likewise, very big or strong creatures benefit from Power Attack,
which allows them ro convert points from their attack bonus
into extra damage.

 

SPACE/REACH i

[This entry describes how much space the creature takes up on the
battle grid and needs to fight effectively, as well as how close it has
to be to an opponent to threaten that opponent.

A creature's Space/Reach entry depends on its size, as shown.on
Table 7-1; Creature Sizes (page 314). A creature's space is always a
square area, no matter what the creature's shape or anatomy is like.
For example, an ogre and a horse have the same. space figure (10
feet), because they're both Large creatures, 4

Tall creatures (bipeds, usually) have a longer reach than long,
creatures, For example, a horse has a reach of S feet, butan ogre
has a reach of 10 feet because itis taller.

Some creatures haye exceptional reach due to a particular weap-
on choice or a quirk of anatomy, It’s all right to assign a special
reach figure that applies to a particular artack (such as the roper's
strands).

ENVIRONMENT

Consider where the creature lives and choose a preferred climate
(warm, temperate, or cold) and terrain (plains, hills, forest, marsh,
mountains, or desert), Your monster is not.restricted to that com-
bination of climate and terrain, but it’s the setting the monster is
most likely to be encountered in,

Creatures that have no place in the natural environment (par-
ticularly constructs and undead) usually have an entry of “Any.”
Extraplanar outsiders should be assigned a plane of origin,

TREASURE

Most creatures will have no treasure (None) or standard treasure.
Very intelligent creatures might have double or triple treasure.
Some creatures may collect only certain types of treasure. See
Table 3-5, page 52 of the Dungeon Master's Guide.

ALIGNMENT

What alignment does your monster have? Choose lawful, neurral,
or chaotic, followed by good, neutral, or evil. All alignments have
a qualifier; always, usually, or often, See page 305 for details.

 

 

SKILLS THE QUICK WAY

Instead of fretting about each skill point, an easy way to assign skills to
a monster is to simply buy a number of skills, all at the creature's maxi-
mum ranks, The number of individual skills a creature can choose this
way is equal to its Intelligence modifier plus the base number of skill
points a creature of its type receives per HD. For example, undead have
skill points equal to (4 + Int modifier) at each HD, so an undead crea-
ture with an Intelligence score of 15 (Int modifier +2) could simply
select six skills at maximum rank

 

 
