    
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
  
 

ADVANCEMENT

This entry provides a measure of how tough the creature can get if
you decide to increase its Hit Dice. In general,.a creature should
be able to have up to three times its original Hit Dice (that is, a 3
HD creature should be able to advance up to. 9 HD),

Most creatures will get larger if you add a lot of Hit Dice, so you
,should pick a break point at which the creature's size changes, For)
example, the Advancement entry for a Large plant creature with 3,
| Hit Dice might read: 45 HD (Large), 6-9 HD (Huge). See Table)
| S=1 for guidelines on size and Hit Dice.

Some monster types dont haye. obvious break points between.
|size categories. In these cases, you probably want to set the break

point between sizes at 1/2 the maximum Hit Dice to be added. For
example, a Large aberration with 4 HD could advance to 12 HD.
Since you're adding up .to.8 Hit Dice, the creature's Advancement
entry might read: 5-8 HD (Large); 9-12 (Huge).

CHALLENGE RATING

{This shows what level of party for which the creature would make)
ja.good encounter of moderate difficulty. A party of four fresh,
characters (full hit points, full spells, and an assortment of equip-|
ment appropriate.to their levels) should be able to win the
encounter with some damage, but no casualties, given teesoneble
luck. This victory should consume no more than 20% of the party
resources (hit points, spells, and consumable magic items).
Assigning an appropriate Challenge Rating can be difficult. The
two basic tools for determining CR are comparing and playtesting.

Comparing CR

|The simplest and quickest way to estimate your monster's Chal-
jlenge Rating is to compare it to similar monsters in.an appropriate
\CR range. Begin with the target CR you used in constructing your
monster. Use the list of Monsters by Challenge Rating (see page
318) 10 compile a list of monsters whose CRs match your mon-
ster's CR, plus or minus 1, For example, ifyour target. CR is 7, you
should closely examine monsters of CR 6,7, and 8.

To narrow your list, look for monsters with similar types or sim-
ilar methods (bruisers, spell-like ability users, special attack users, ,
and soon). Once you've reduced your list of comparable monsters ,
to a manageable number, see how your monster compares to the |
others, using the following checklist;

—Does your monster haye more.or less Hit Dice?

—Does your monster have a better or worse Armor Class?

—Does your monster havea higher or lower attack bonus?

—Does your monster deal more or less damage?

—Does your monster have more deadly special attacks?

—Does your monster have spell-like abilities whose highest
sspell level is lower or higher than the spell-like abilities of compa-
jrable monsters?
|_—Does your monster have special defenses the other monsters
dont have?

If your monster is clearly superior to most of the comparable
monstets, your target CR is probably too low, Try adjusting the CR
up by 1 or 2, then find a.new list of monsters that should be com-
parable ar the new CR and see how your monster stacks up. If your
monster is clearly not as tough.as most of the comparable mon-
sters, reduce your CR by 1. or 2. and find a new list. of comparable
monsters to check your monster. against,

Playtesting CR
| The best way.to.set a monster's CR isto see how it handles in play.
{This can be time-consuming, bur it probably gives you the best
jinformation about how challenging your monster is,
To playtest.a. monster's CR, use the following procedure:
1. Create.a.“playtest party” consisting of four characters whose
level equals your monster's target CR + 2. Each character should
be built using the standard ability score array and equipment for a,

    

   

PC of their level, Include a fighter, rogue, cleric, and wizard if pos-
sible, You can use copies of your players’ characters for this, but if |
your PCs are unusual, your results will be skewed. |

2. Create a representative encounter for the monster that_uses.

two of the creatures (two monsters of CR X is an appropriate
Lencounter for four PCs of level X+2). For simple monsters, a room
yand a door should suffice, but if your monster is built to ambush
parties or make good use of a particular terrain, you should proba-
bly check the monster in the sort of environment you. expect 10
.use when you employ the monster in a real game session.

3. Allow the PCs to begin the encounter with spells or effects.
whose duration is measured at 10 minutes per level or longer in
effect,

4. Assign all combatants an initiative roll of 10, modified by,
their normal initiative modifiers (for playtests, you want everyone,
to take 10 on their initiative roll),

$, Run the encounter several times and try different tactics and

[setups for the monsters

 

LIf your proposed CR is appropriate, the PCs should be able to win
the encounter with some damage, given reasonable luck. This vic-
tory should consume no more than 20%.of the party resources (hit
points, spells, and consumable magic items), In the case of high-
CR monsters (say, 11 or more), an occasional PC death is not out of.
line with the monster's CR, since parties of that level can usually
bring dead characters back to life pretty easily,

If your monster seems too dangerous, try_the encounter again |
with a single monster; this lets you see how the monster looks as.a,
solitary combatant whose CR is equal to the party's level. If the,
party handles the monster with no trouble, try increasing the.
number of monsters to three or four (which would effectively.
lower the monster’s.CR by 1 or 2). You may need to adjust. the
party's level and try the monster again at its new CR.

Monster Function and Challenge Rating
A quick and dirty way to double-check your CR assignment is to
compare your monster's Hit Dice against its CR. Depending on
their function, monsters need a high number of Hit Dice for their
CR, a low amount of Hit Dice for their CR, or an average amount.

Evaluate your monster and decide what its basic function is: bat-
ler, ambusher, magic user, special attack user, or multiple threat.

Battler; The monster uses sheer combat skill to threaten the
party.and bas few special abilities. Examples: dire animal (any),
giant (any), gray render, minotaur, shambling mound, worg, A bat-
tler's CR should be from 1/3 its HD to 2/3 its HD.

Ambusher; The monster depends on stealth or surprise attacks
to threaten the party. Examples: assassin vine, choker, derro,
mimic, phase spider, roper, An ambusher's CR should be from 1/2
its HD to its HD,

Magic User: The monster's best attacks are its spells or spell-
like abilities. Examples; aboleth, Jamia, lillend, mind flayer,
nymph. A magic user's CR should be from about its HD to its HD
+2, provided the spells it can. employ would be appropriate for a
spellcasting character whose level is about the same as the mon-
ster’s Hit Dice, (If they're less than expected, your monster is prob-
ably better described as. an ambusher or battler.)

Special Attack User: The monster is dangerous because of a
special attack it can employ. Examples; basilisk, dragon (any),
harpy, medusa, wraith, vampire. A special attack user's CR should
be from 2/3 its HD.to its HD. 4

Multiple Threat: The monster combines two or more.of the,
previous functions, For example, many demons and devils com-
bine battler and magic user functions, while a mind flayer com-|

 bines magic user and special attack user functions. Dragons with
{significant spellcasting ability frequently combine battler, magic
juser, and special attack user functions. A multiple threat's CR
should be from about 3/4 its HD.to its HD +2.
