  

HOVER [GENERAL]
The creature can come toa halt in midait.
Prerequisite: Fly speed.
Benefit: When flying, the creature can halt its forward motion

less of its maneuverability.

appendages it could use in,a full attack, The creature can instead
\use.a breath weapon or cast a spell instead of making physical
attacks, if it could normally do so.

Ifa creature of Large size or latger hovers within 20 feet of the
ground in an area with lots of loose debris, the draft from its wings
creates a hemispherical cloud with a radius of 60 feet. The winds
so generated can snuff torches, small campfires, exposed lanterns,

have total concealment (50% miss chance, and opponents cannot
use sight to locate the creature).

Those caught in the cloud must succeed on a Concentration
check (DC 10 + 1/2 creature's HD) to cast a spell.

Normal: Without this feat, a creature must keep moving while
flying unless it has perfect maneuverability.

IMPROVED NATURAL ARMOR [GENERAL]
|The creature's natural armor is thicker and harder than that of
jothers of its kind,

Prerequisites: Natural armor, Con 13,

Benefit: The creature's natural armor bonus increases by 1.

Special: A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Each time
ithe crearure takes the feat, its natural armor bonus increases by
another point.

IMPROVED NATURAL ATTACK [GENERAL]
The creature's natural attacks are more dangerous than its size and.
type would otherwise dictate,

Prerequisite: Natural weapon, base attack bonus +4, }

Benefit: Choose one of the creature's natural attack forms, The.
damage for this natural weapon increases by one step, as if the
creature's size had increased by one category: 1d2, 1d3, 1d4, 1d6,
1d8, 246, 3d6, +d6, 6d6, 8d6, 12d6. A weapon or attack that deals
1d10 points of damage increases as follows: 1410, 2d8, 3d8, 4d8,
6ds, Sds, 12d,

MULTIATTACK [GENERAL]
{The creature is adept at using all its natural weapons at once.
| Prerequisite: Three or more natural attacks,
Benefit: The creature's secondary attacks with natural weapons
take only a~-2 penalty,
Normal; Without this feat, the creature's secondary attacks
with natural weapons take aS penalty.

MULTIWEAPON FIGHTING [GENERAL]

A creature with three or more hands can fight with a. weapon in
each hand, The creature can make one extra.attack each round
with each extra weapon,
Prerequisites: Dex 13, three or more hands,

,— Benefit: Penalties for fighting with multiple weapons are reduced
jby.2.with the primary hand and reduced by.6 with off hands,
|Normal: A creature without this feat takes a—6 penalty on
jattacks made with its primary hand and a—10 penalty.on attacks
made with its off hands, (It has one primary hand, and all the
others are.off hands,) See Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160 of the
Player's Handbook.

and hover in place as a move action. It can then fly in any direc-,
tion, including straight down or straight up, at half speed, regard

Ifa creature begins its turn hovering, it can hover in place for,
{the turn and take a full-round action. A hovering creature cannot}
smake wing attacks, but it can attack with all other limbs and

{and other small, open flames of nonmagical origin. Clear vision}
lwithin the cloud is limited to 10 feet. Creatures have concealment,
lat 15 to 20 feet (20% miss chance). At 25 feet or more, creatures |

    
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
       

Special: This feat replaces the Two-Weapon Fighting feat for)
creatures with more than two arms,

QUICKEN SPELL-LIKE ABILITY [GENERALI
The creature can employ.a spelllike ability with a moment's thought

Prerequisite: Spell-like ability at caster level 10th or higher.

Benefit: Choose one of the creature's spell-like abilities, subject
to the restrictions described below. The creature can.use that abil-
ity as a quickened spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if,
the ability is normally. usable only once ortwvice. per day).

Using a quickened spell-like ability is a free action that does. not |
provoke an attack of opportunity. The creature can perform an:
other action—including the use of another spell-like ability—in.
the same round that it uses a quickened spell-like ability, The crea:
ture may_use only one quickened spell-like ability per round.,

The creature can only select a spell-like ability duplicating a
spell with a level less than or equal to half its caster level (round

idown) 4. For a summary, see the table below. For example, a crea-
sture that uses its spell-like abilities as a 15th-level caster can only,

[quicken spell-like abilities duplicating spells of 3rd level or lower,
In addition, a spell-like ability chat duplicates a. spell with acasting
time greater than 1 full round cannot be quickened,

Normal: Normally the use ofa spell-like ability requires a standard
action and provokes an attack of opportunity unless noted otherwise.

Special: This feat can be taken multiple times, Each time it is
oe the.creature can apply it to a different one of its spell-like
abilities,

EMPOWER AND QUICKEN SPELL-LIKE ABILITY

Spell Caster Level Caster Level
Level to Empower to Quicken
0 4th 8th
Ist 6th 10th
2nd 8th Vath
3rd 10th 14th
4th Vath 6th
Sth 14th 18th.
6th 16th 20th
7th 18th. —
8th 20th -
9th = -

SNATCH [GENERAL]
The. creature can grab opponents much smaller than itself and
hold them in its mouth or claw,

Prerequisite: Size Huge or larger.

Benefits; The creature can choose to start a grapple when it hits
with a claw or bite attack, as though it had the improved grab special
attack. If the creature gets a hold on a creature three or more sizes
smaller, it squeezes each round for automatic bite or claw damage. A
snatched opponent held in the creature's mouth is not allowed a
Reflex save against the creature's breath weapon, if it has one.

The creature can drop a creature it has snatched as a free action
or.use a standard action.to fling it aside, A flung creature travels
1d6x10 feet, and takes 16 points of damage per 10 feet traveled, If
the creature flings a snatched opponent while flying, the oppo-
nent takes this amount or falling damage, whichever is greater.

WINGOVER [GENERAL]
The creature can change direction quickly while flying.

Prerequisite: Fly speed,

Benefits; A flying creature with this feat can change direction |
quickly once each round asa free action. This feat allows it to turn |
up.to 180 degrees regardless of its maneuverability, in addition to

jany.other turns it is normally allowed. A creature cannot gain alri-
vtude during around when it executes a wingover, but it can dive.
‘The change of direction consumes 10 feet of flying movement
