 
    
  
 
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

   
   
 

    

—d8 Hit Dice. —_

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).

—Good Fortitude and Reflex saves (certain animals have dif-
ferent good saves).

—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit)

Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.

Traits: An animal possesses the following traits (unless other-

\wise noted in a creature's entry).

—Intelligence score of 1 or 2 (no creature with an Intelligence }

score of 3 or higher can be an animal).
—Low-light vision.
—Alignment: Always neutral.
Treasure: None.

—Proficient with its natural weapons only: A noncombative herbi-
Vore uses its natural weapons as a secondary attack. Such attacks are
made with a—5 penalty on the creature’ attack rolls, and the animal

receives only 1/2 its Strength modifier as a damage adjustment.
| —=Proficient with no armor unless trained for war,
|—Animals.cat, sleep, and breathe,

‘Aquatic Subtype: These creatures always have swim speeds |

and thus can move in water without making Swim checks. An
aquatic creature can breathe underwater. It cannot also breathe air
unless it has the amphibious special quality.

Archon Subtype: Archons are.a race of celestials, or good out-

siders, native to the Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia.

Traits: An archon possesses the following traits (unless other-
jwise noted in a creature's entry).

—Darkyision.out to 60 feet and low-light vision.

—aAura of Menace (Su): A righteous aura surrounds archons
ithat fight or get angry. Any hostile creature within a 20-foot radius
jofan archon must succeed on a Will save to resist its effects. The
\save DC varies with the type of archon, is Charisma-based, and

includes .a+2 racial bonus. Those who fail take a —2 penalty on
attacks, AC, and saves for 24 hours or until they successfully hit
the archon. that generated the aura. A creature that has resisted or

broken the effect cannot be affected again by the same archon’,

aura for 24 hours,
—Immunity to electricity and petrification.
— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.

—Magic Circle against Evil (Su): A magic circle against evil

effect always surrounds an archon (caster level equals the archon’
Hit Dice). (The defensive benefits from the circle are not included
in an archon’ statistics block.)
—Teleport (Su): Archons can use greater teleport at will, as the
spell (caster level 14th), except that the creature can transport only
itself and up.to 50 pounds of objects.
—Tongues (Su): All archons can speak with any creature that
phas.a language, as though using a tongues spell (caster level 14th).
\This ability is always active.

Augmented Subtype: A creature receives this subtype when-
ever something happens to change its original type. Some crea-
tures (those with an inherited template) are born with this subtype;
others acquire it when they.take on.an acquired template. The aug-
mented subtype is always paired with the creature's original type.
For example, a wizard's raven familiar is.a magical beast (aug-
mented animal). A creature with the augmented subtype usually
has the traits of its current type, but the features of its original type.

For example, a wizard’ rayen familiar has an animal's features and
\the traits of amagical beast.

Baatezu Subtype: Many devils belong to the race of evil our-
siders known as the baatezu.

Tmits: A baatezu possesses the following traits (unless otherwise |
noted in a creature's entry).

     

—AImmunity.to-fire and poison.

—Resistance to acid 10 and cold 10, j

—See in Darkness (Su): All baatezu can see perfectly in dark-

ness. of any kind, even that created by a deeper darkness spell.

,——Summon (Sp); Baatezu share the ability to summon others of
{their kind (the success. chance and type of baatezu summoned are
\noted in each monster description).

—Telepathy.

Blindsense (Ex): Using nonvisual senses, such as acute smell
or hearing, a creature with blindsense notices things it cannot see. |
The creature usually does not need to make Spot or Listen checks.
to pinpoint the location of a creature within range of its blind-
sense ability, provided that it has line of effect to that creature. Any,
opponent the creature cannot see still has roral concealment
against the creature with blindsense, and the creature still has the

\normal miss chance when attacking foes that have concealment.
{Visibility still affects the movement of a creature with blindsense.
4A creature with blindsense is still denied its Dexterity bonus to.
|Armor Class against attacks from creatures it cannot see.

Blindsight (Ex): This ability is similar to blindsense, but is far
more discerning. Using nonyisual senses, such as sensitivity to
vibrations, keen smell, acute hearing, or echolocation, a creature
with blindsight maneuyers and fights as wellas.a sighted creature,
Invisibility, darkness, and most kinds of concealment are irrele-
vant, though the creature must have line of effect to a creature.or,
object to discern that creature or object. The ability’s range is spec: |
ified in the creature's descriptive text. The creature usually does.
not need to make Spot or Listen checks to notice creatures within
range of its blindsight ability. Unless noted otherwise, blindsight,
is continuous, and the creature need do nothing to use it. Some.
forms of blindsight, however, must be triggered as a free action. If,
so, this is noted in the creature's description. If a creature must
trigger its blindsight ability, the creature gains the benefits of.
blindsight only during its turn.

Breath Weapon (Su): A breath weapon attack usually deals
damage and is often based on some type of energy (such as fire).
Such breath weapons allow a Reflex save for half damage (DC 10 +
1/2 breathing creature's racial HD + breathing creature's Con mod-
ifier; the exact DC is given in the creature's descriptive text). A
creature is immune to its. own breath weapon unless otherwise
noted. Some breath weapons allow a Fortitude save or a Will save
instead of a Reflex save.

Change Shape (Su): A creature with this special quality has the
ability to assume the appearance of a specific creature or type of
creature (usually a humanoid), but retains most of its own physical
qualities, A creature cannot change shape to a form more than one
size category smaller or larger.than.its original form. Changing
shape results in the following changes to the creature:

—The creature retains the type and subtype of its original form.
It gains the size of its new form,

—The. creature loses the natural weapons, movement modes,
and extraordinary special attacks of its original form.

—The creature gains the natural weapons, movement modes,
and extraordinary special attacks of its new form.

—The creature retains all other special attacks and qualities of |
its original form,except for breath weapons and gaze attacks. ,

—The creature retains the ability scores of its original form.

—tThe creature retains its hit points and saves, 4

—tThe creature retains any spellcasting ability it had in its orig-)

inal form, although it must be able to speak intelligibly to cast
{spells with verbal components and it must have humanlike hands
\to.cast spells with somatic components.

—The creature is effectively camouflaged as a creature of its

  
