new form, and gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks ifit uses this
ability to create a disguise.

Chaotic Subtype: A subtype usually applied only to oursiders
native to the chaotic-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that,
have this subtype also have chaotic alignments; however, if their,
alignments change they still retain the subtype. Any effect that)

\depends on alignment affects a.creature.with this subtype as if the.
creature has a chaotic alignment, no matter what its alignment)
actually is. The creature also suffers effects according to its actual,
jalignment, A creature with the chaotic subtype overcomes.
idamage reduction as if its natural weapons and any weapons it
_Wields were chaotic-aligned (see Damage Reduction, below)

Class Skills: Any skill in which a monster has acquired at least
one rank or in which the creature has a racial bonus is considered
,aclass.skill for that kind of creature. Some monsters, such as the
,true.dragons, have their class skills explicitly listed. Other mon-)
jsters’ class skills can be determined from their statistics blocks. |
Creatures with a Swim speed always have Swim as a class skill.|
Creatures with a Climb speed always have Climb as a class skill.
Skills listed in an entry merely because of synergy with another
skill are not class skills. For example, a marilith’s class skills are
Bluff, Concentration, Diplomacy, Hide, Intimidate, Listen, Move
Silently, Search, Sense Motive, Spellcraft, Spot, and Use Magic
Device. Even though Disguise and Survival are mentioned in the
creature's statistics block, their presence is exclusively due to the
synergy benefit granted by Bluff and Search.

Cold Subtype: A creature with the cold subtype has immunity
yto.cold. It has vulnerability to fire, which means ittakes half again
,as much (+50%) damage as normal from fire, regardless of whether

asaving throw is allowed, or if the save is a success or failure.

Constrict (Ex): A creature with this special attack. can crush an
opponent, dealing bludgeoning damage, after making a successful
grapple check. The amount of damage is given in the creature's
entry, If the creature also has the improved grab ability (see page,
310), it deals constriction damage in addition to damage dealt by,
the weapon used to grab.

Construct Type: A construct is.an animated object or artifi-

cially constructed creature.

Features: A construct has the following features.

—10-sided Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric),

—No good saving throws.

—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
{Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the con-
)struct has an Intelligence score. However, most constructs are

mindless and gain no skill points or feats.

Tits: A construct possesses the following traits (unless other-

wise noted in a. creature's entry),

—No Constitution score.

—Low-light vision.

—Darkvision out to 60 feet,

—Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compul-

sions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).

—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, dis-
,ease, death effects, and necromancy effects.

—Cannot heal damage on their own, but often can be.repaired
jby-exposing them to a.certain kind of effect (see the creature's
jdescription for details) or through the use.of the Craft Construct

feat (see page 303). A construct with the fast healing special qual-
iry still benefits from that quality,

—Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, |

ability drain, fatigue, exhaustion, or energy drain.

—Immunity.to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless,
the effect also works on objects, or is harmless).

—Notat risk of death from massive damage (see page 145 ofthe |
Player's Handbook). Immediately destroyed when reduced to.0 hit)

{points or less.

—Since it was never alive, a construct cannot be raised or res-

surrected.

—Because its body is.a.mass of unliving matter, a construct is.
hard to destroy. Ir gains bonus hit points based on size, as shown,

.on the following table. 4

Bonus Bonus
Construct Size__Hit Points Construct Size___Hit Points
Fine = Large 30
Diminutive —_— Huge. 40.
Tiny - Gargantuan 60
Small 10 Colossal 80.
Medium 20

—Proficient with its natural weapons only, unless generally,

[humanoid in form, in which case proficient with any weapon,
[mentioned in its entry.

—Proficient with no armor.
—Constructs.do not ear, sleep, or breathe.

Damage Reduction (Ex or Su): A creature with this special
quality ignores damage from most weapons.and natural attacks,
Wounds heal immediately, or the weapon bounces off harmlessly.
(in either case, the opponent knows the attack was ineffective
‘The creature takes normal damage from energy attacks (even non-|
magical ones), spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities, |
A certain kind of weapon can sometimes damage the creature nor-
mally, as noted below.

‘The entry indicates the amount of damage ignored (usually 5. to,
15 points) and the type of weapon that negates the ability, For,
example, the werewolf's entry reads “damage reduction 10/silver’:
Each time a foe hits a werewolf with a weapon, the damage dealt
by thar attack is reduced by 10 points (to a minimum of 0). How-
ever, a silvered weapon deals full damage.

Some monsters are vulnerable to piercing, bludgeoning, or
slashing damage. For example, skeletons have damage reduction
$/bludgeoning. When hit.with slashing or piercing weapons, the
damage dealt by each attack is reduced by 5 points, but bludgeon-
ing weapons deal full damage.

Some monsters are vulnerable to certain materials, such as
alchemical silver, adamantine, or cold-forged iron. Attacks from
weapons that are not made of the correct material have their
damage reduced, even if the weapon has an enhancement bonus.
Examples; the werewolf's damage reduction 10/silver, the iron
golem’s damage reduction 15/adamantine, and the nymphs dam-
age reduction 10/cold iron.

Some monsters are vulnerable to magic weapons. Any weapon.
with at least a+1 magical enhancement bonus on attack and dam-
age rolls overcomes the damage reduction of these monsters, Such
creatures’ natural weapons (bur not their attacks with weapons)
are treated as magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming
damage reduction. For example, the gargoyle has damage reduc-
tion 10/magic and can strike as a magic weapon for the purpose of.
overcoming damage reduction.

A few very powerful monsters, such as the solar and the tar-!
rasque, are vulnerable only to epic weapons; that is, magic weap-|
ons with at least.a +6 enhancement bonus. Such creatures’ natural |
_ weapons are.also treated as epic weapons for the purpose of over-|
coming damage reduction.

Some monsters are vulnerable to chaotic: evil-, good-, orlawful-)

  

Jaligned weapons, When a cleric casts align sweapon, affected weap-
,ons.might gain one or more of these properties, and certain magic
isweapons have these properties as well. For example, many tanar'ri

demons and baatezu devils have damage reduction 10/good, while

 
