     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
   
  
   
    
  
    
  
 
    

many celestials have damage reduction 10/evil. A creature sith an
alignment subtype (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful) can overcome
this type of damage reduction with its natural weapons and weap-
ons it wields as if the weapons or natural weapons had an align-

|weapons were evil-aligned and lawful-aligned.
When a damage reduction entry has.adash (-) after the slash,
.no.weapon negates the damage reduction.

‘A few creatures are harmed by more than one kind of weapon. |
(The babau demon, for example, has damage reduction 10/cold
iron or good. Either kind of weapon—cold iron or good—over-
comes its damage reduction.

A few other creatures require combinations of different types of
attacks to overcome their damage reduction. The ghaele eladrin has
(damage reduction 10/evil and cold iron, meaning that a weapon must

least a +1 enhancement bonus deal full damage to it. A weapon that
falls into one category but not the other is of no help in overcoming
the creature's damage reduction—a magic sword or a nonmagical
‘mace is no better at harming a lich than any other weapon.

Dragon Type: A dragon is a reptilelike creature, usually
\winged, with magical or unusual abilities,
| __Features: A dragon has the following fearures.

—12-sided Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
|. —Good Fortitude, Reflex, and Will saves,

—Skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier, minimum. 1) per Hit
|Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die,

Traits: A dragon possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
noted in the description of a particular kind).

—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.

—Immunity.to magic sleep effects and paralysis effects.

entry.
—Proficient with no armor
—Dragons eat, sleep, and breathe,

Earth Subtype: This subtype usually is used for elementals and
outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane of Earth, Earth
creatures usually have burrow speeds, and most earth creatures
can burrow through solid rock.

Effective Character Level (ECL); This number represents a
icreature's overall power relative to that of a character from the
Player’s Handbook, A creature with an ECL of 10 is roughly equiva-
lent to a 10th-level character. A creature's ECL is the sum of its Hit
Dice (including class levels) and level adjustment. For instance, a
minotaur has 6 HD and a +2 level adjustment, Ir is the equivalent
of an 8th-level character.

Eladrin Subtype: Eladrins are a race of celestials, or good out-
siders, native to the the Olympian Glades of Arborea,

Traits: An eladrin possesses the following traits (unless other-
wise noted in.a.creature’s entry),
|_—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision,
| —Immunity.to electricity and petrification,
|_—=Resistance.to.cold 10 and fire 10.

—Tongues (Su); All eladrins can speak with any creature thar

has a language,.as though using a tongues spell (caster level 14th). |
This ability is always active.

ment (or alignments) that match the subtype(s) of the creature, A.
bearded devil, for instance, has the evil and lawful subtypes, and,
thus can overcome damage reduction as if its weapons and natural |

‘be made of cold-forged iron and be evil-aligned in order to overcome ,
| the ghaele's damage reduction. A lich has damage reduction 15/bludg-|
|eoning and magic, meaning that only bludgeoning weapons with at

—Proficient with its natural weapons only unless humanoid in,
form (or capable of assuming humanoid form), in which case pro.
ficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in its.

Elemental Type: An elemental is a being composed of one of
the four classical elements: air, earth, fire, or water.
Features: An elemental has the following features.
—S-sided Hit Dice.
—Base attack bonus equal.to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric),
—Good saves depend on the elemenr: Fortitude (earth, water)
yor Reflex (air, fire),
—Skill points equal ro (2.4 Int modifier, minimum.1) per Hit
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
‘Tmits: An elemental possesses the following traits (unless. other-|
wise noted in a creature's entry).
—Darkvision out to 60 feet
—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis. and stunning.
—Not subject to critical hits or flanking.
—Unlike most other living creatures, an.clemental does not!
have a dual nature—its soul and body form oneunit, Whenan ele-
mental is slain, no soul is set loose. Spells that restore souls to their

—Proficient with natural weapons only. unless generally hu-
manoid in form, in which case proficient with all simple weapons
and any weapons mentioned in its entry.

—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) thar it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types.
Elementals not indicated as wearing armor. are. not proficient with

  

Lbodies, such as raise dead, reincarnate, and resurrection, don't work on ,
jan.elemenral. Ir takes a different magical effect, such as limited ,
Lwish, wish, miracle, or true resurrection, to restore it to life.

armor. Elementals are proficient with shields if they are proficient,

with any form of armor.
—Elementals do not eat, sleep, or breathe.

Energy Drain (Su); This attack saps a living opponent's vital,

energy and happens automatically when a melee or ranged attack.
hits. Each successful energy drain bestows one or more negative
levels (the creature's description specifies how many). If an attack
that includes an energy drain scores a critical hit, it drains twice.
the given amount. Unless otherwise specified in the creature's
description, a draining creature gains 5 temporary_hit points (10
on acritical hit) for each negative level it bestows on an opponent.
These temporary hit points last for a maximum of 1 hour.

An affected opponent takes.a—1 penalty on all skill checks and
ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws, and loses one effective
level or Hit Die (whenever level is used in a die roll or calculation)
for each negative level, A spellcaster loses one spell slot of the high-
est level of spells she can.cast.and (if applicable) one prepared spell of
that level; this loss persists until the negative level is removed.

Negative levels remain until 24 hours have passed or until they
are removed with a spell, such as restoration, If a negative level is
not removed before 24 hours have passed, the affected creature
must attempt a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 draining creature's
racial HD + draining creature's Cha modifier; the exact DC is given
in the creature's descriptive text)..On a success, the negative level
goes away with no harm to the creature. On a failure, the negative
Jevel goes away, but the creature's level is also reduced by one. A
separate saving throw is required for each negative level.

Environment: This entry in a statistics block describes the
type of climate and terrain where the creature is typically found.
This is a preference, but is not exclusionary. Note that these envi-
ronments can also exist in portions of dungeons due. to magical
effects or other supernatural interference, or as features in dun-

geons or other environment areas, Chapter 5 of the Dungeon,

Master's Guide has details on climate and terrain types.

Evil Subtype: A subtype usually applied only to outsiders |

inative.to the evil-aligned Outer Planes. Evil outsiders are also
\called fiends, Most creatures that have this subtype also have evil

alignments; however, if their alignments change, they still retain

  
