the subtype. Any effect that depends on alignment affects a.crea-

ture with this subtype as if the creature has an evil alignment, no
matter what its alignment actually is. The creature also suffers
effects according to its actual alignment. A creature with the evil

subtype overcomes damage reduction as if its natural weapons,
and any weapons it wields were evil-aligned (see Damage Reduc-|

tion, above).

Extraplanar Subtype: A subtype applied to any creature when |
itis on a-plane other than its native plane. A creature that travels

the planes can gain or lose this subtype as it goes from plane to
plane. This book assumes.that encounters with creatures take
place.on the Material Plane, and every creature whose native plane
is not the Material Plane has the extraplanar subtype (but would
not have when on its home plane). Every extraplanar creature in
this book has a home plane mentioned in its description. These
-home planes are taken from the Great Wheel cosmology of the

, D&D. game (see Chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master's Guide), Lf your}
\campaign.uses a.different cosmology, you will need to assign dif- 1

ferent home planes to extraplanar creatures.

Creatures not labeled as extraplanar are natives of the Material

Plane, and they gain the extraplanar subtype if they leave the
Material Plane. No creature has the extraplanar subtype when it is
on a transitive plane; the transitive planes in the D&D cosmology
are the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane, and the Plane of Shadow.

Fast Healing (Ex): A creature with the fast healing special
quality regains hit points at an exceptionally fast rare, usually 1 or
more hit points per round, as given in the creature's entry (for
example, a vampire has fast healing 5). Except where noted here,

fast healing is just like natural healing (see page 146 of the Player's
| Handbook). Fast healing does not restore hit points lost from star-
vation, thirst, or suffocation, and it does not allow.a creature to
regrow lost body parts, Unless otherwise stated, it does not allow
lost body parts ro be reattached.

Favored Class: A monster that takes levels in a class (or more
than one class) has a favored class, just as player characters do. In.

addition, a monster's racial Hit Dice also count as a favored.class, |
in effect: If the monster becomes a multiclass character, neither its |
favored class nor its racial Hit Dice count when determining,

whether the creature takes an experience point penalty.

Fear (Su or Sp): Fear attacks can have various effects.

Fear Aura (Su): The use of this ability is a free action. The aura
can freeze.an.opponent (such asa mummy's despair) or function
like the fear spell (for example, the aura of a lich). Other effects are
possible. A fear aura is an area effect. The descriptive text gives the
size and kind of area.

Fear Cones (Sp) and Rays (Su); These effects usually work like the
fear spell.

If a fear effect allows.a saving throw, it is a Will save (DC 10 +
1/2 fearsome creature's racial HD + creature's Cha modifier; the
exact DC is given in the creature's descriptive text), All fear attacks
are mind-affecting fear effects,

FeyType: A fey is a creature with supernatural abilities and con-
nections to nature or to some other force or place, Fey are usually
human-shaped.

,_ Features: A fey has the following features.

—6-sided Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal to 1/2 total Hit Dice (as wizard).

—Good Reflex and Will saves.

—Skill points equal to.(6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
‘Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Dic.

Tmits: A fey possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
noted in acrearure’s entry).

—Low-light vision.

—Proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons men-|
tioned in its entry. }

—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or,

sheavy) thar it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types.
{Fey not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor.
\Fey are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form

of armor.
—Fey eat, sleep, and breathe.

Fire Subtype: A creature with the fire subtype has immunity.t0,
fire. Ir has vulnerability to cold, which means it takes half again as.
much (+50%) damage as normal from cold, regardless. of whether a
saving throw is allowed, or if the save is a success or failure.

Flight (Ex or Su): A creature with this ability can cease or

.resume flight as a free action, If the ability is supernatural, it
{becomes ineffective in an antimagic field, and the creature loses
its ability to fly for as long as the antimagic effect persists.

Frightful Presence (Ex): This special quality makes a.creature’s
very presence unsettling to foes, It takes effect automatically.
when the creature performs some sort of dramatic action (such as
charging, artacking, or snarling). Opponents sithin range who
witness the action may become frightened or shaken.

Actions required to trigger the ability are given in the crea-
ture's descriptive text. The range is usually 30 feet, and the dura-|
tion is usually Sdé rounds.

This ability affects only opponents with fewer Hit Dice or levels |
than the creature has. An affected opponent can resist the effects
with a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 frightful creature's racial,
HD + frightful creature's Cha modifier, the exact DC is given in.
the creature's descriptive text), An opponent that succeeds on the,
saving throw is immune to that same creature's frightful presence
for 24 hours. Frightful presence is a mind-affecting fear effect.

Gaze (Su): A gaze special attack takes effect.when opponents
look at the creature's eyes. The attack can have almost any sort of
effect: petrification, death, charm, and so on.The typical range is
30 feet, but check the creature's entry for details.

The type of saving throw for.a gaze attack varies, but it is usually a
Will or Fortitude save (DC 10+ 1/2 gazing creature's racial HD +
gazing creature’ Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature's
descriptive text). A successful saving throw negates the effect. A mon-
ster’s gaze attack is described in abbreviated form in its description.

Each opponent within range of a gaze attack must attempt a
saving throw each round at the beginning of his or her turn in the
initiative order. Only looking directly at a creature with a gaze
attack leaves an opponent vulnerable. Opponents can avoid the
need to make the saving throw by not looking at the creature, in
one of two ways.

Averting Eyes: The opponent avoids looking at the creature's face,
instead looking at its body, watching its shadow, tracking it in a
reflective surface, and so.on. Each round, the opponent has a 50%
chance to not need to make a saving throw against the gaze attack.
The creature with the gaze attack, however, gains concealment
against that opponent. 1

Wearing a Blindfold: The opponent cannot see the creature atall,
(also possible to achieve by turning one's back on the creature or
shutting one’s eyes). The creature with the gaze attack gains total

\concealment against the opponent.

A.creature with a gaze attack can actively gaze as an attack}
action by choosing a target within range. That opponent must|
attempta saving throw but can try to avoid this as described above.

| Thus, it is possible for an opponent to save against a creature's gaze
\twice during the same round, once before the opponent's action

and once during the creatures turn.

 
