  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
 

      

Gaze attacks can affect ethereal opponents A creature is im-
mune to gaze attacks of others of its kind unless otherwise noted.
Allies of a creature with a gaze attack might be affected. All the
creature's allies are considered to be averting their eyes from the
creature with the gaze attack, and have a SO% chance to not need to,
make a saving throw against the gaze attack.each round. The crea: |
ture also can veil its eyes, thus negating its gaze ability.

Giant Type: A giant is a humanoid-shaped creature of great,
Strength, usually of at least Large size.

Features: A giant has the following features.

—s-sided Hit Dice. : =

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/'4 total Hit Dice (as cleric),

—Good Fortitude saves.

—Skill points equal to.(2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.

Tmits: A giant possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
pnoted in.a creature's entry).

| ——Low:light vision. 4

—Proficient with all simple and martial weapons, as well as any |
natural weapons,

—Proficient with whatever type of arthor (light, medium or
heavy) itis described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Giants
not described as wearing armor are not proficient with armor.
Giants are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any
form of armor.

—Giants eat, sleep, and breathe,

Goblinoid Subtype: Goblinoids are stealthy humanoids who
live by hunting and raiding and who all speak Goblin.

Good Subtype: A subtype usually applied only to outsiders
jnative to the good-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that have
ithis subtype also have good alignments; however, if their align-

ments. change, they still retain the subtype. Any. effect that depends
on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature
has a good alignment, no matter what its alignment actually is, The
creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. AL
creature with the good subtype overcomes damage reduction as if|
its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were good-aligned |
(see Damage Reduction, above).

Guardinal Subtype: Guardinals are a race of celestials, or good
outsiders, native to.the the Blessed Fields of Elysium.

‘Truits: A guardinal possesses the following traits (unless other-
wise noted in a. creature's entry).

—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.

—Immunity to electricity and petrification.

—Resistance to cold 10 and sonic 10,
}—=>Lay on Hands (Su): As the paladin class feature, except that
[each day, a guardinal can heal an amount of damage equal to its full
normal hit points.

— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.

—Speak with Animals (Su): This ability works like speak with

animals (caster level Sth) but is a free action and does not require
sound.

Humanoid Type: A humanoid usually has.rwo arms, nwo legs,
and one head, or 2 humanlike torso, arms, and a head. Humanoids
have few or no. supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but most

,san speak and usually have well-developed societies, They usually
jare Small or Medium, Every humanoid creature also has a subtype,
jsuch as elf, goblinoid, or reptilian,

Humanoids with 1 Hit Die exchange the features of their hu-
manoid Hit Die for the class features of a PC or NPC class. Human-
oids of this sort are presented as 1st-level warriors, which means|
that they have average combat ability and poor saving throws.

     

Humanoids with more than 1 Hit Die (for example, gnolls and,
bugbears) are the only humanoids who make use of the features of |
the humanoid type. t

Features: A humanoid has the following fearures (unless other-,
iwise noted in a creature's entry),

—8-sided Hit Dice,.or by character class,

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).

—Good Reflex saves (usually; a humanoid’s good save varies).

—Skill points equal.to.(2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit,

_Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, or by charac
ter class.

Traits: A humanoid possesses the following traits (unless other-
wise noted in a creature's entry).

—Proficient with all simple weapons, or by character class,

—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) it is described as wearing, or by character class. Ifa human-

,oid does not have a class and wears armor, it is proficient with that

‘type of armor and all lighter types. Humanoids not indicated as.

\wwearing armor are not proficient with armor. Humanoids are pro-.

{ficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor,

—Humanoids breathe, cat, and sleep.

Improved Grab (Ex): If a creature with this special attack hits
with a melee weapon (usually a claw or bite attack), it deals normal
damage and attempts to start a grapple asa free action without pro-
voking an attack of opportunity (see Grapple, page 155 of the Player’.
Handbook). No initial touch attack is required, {

Unless otherwise noted, improved grab works only against op-/
ponents at least one size category smaller than the creature, The
creature has the option.to conduct the grapple normally,or simply.
use the part of its body it used in the improved grab to hold the)
opponent. If it chooses to do the latter, it takes a -20 penalty on
grapple checks, bur is not considered grappled itself; the creature
does not lose its Dexterity bonus to AC, still threatens an area, and
can use its remaining attacks against other opponents,

Asuccessful hold does not deal any extra damage unless the crea-
ture also has the constrict special attack. If the creature does not
constrict, each successful grapple check it makes during successive
rounds automatically deals the damage indicated for the attack that
established the hold. Otherwise, it deals constriction damage as
well (the amount is given in the creature's descriptive text).

When a creature gets a hold after an improved grab attack, it
pulls the opponent into its space. This act does not provoke attacks

of. opportunity, It can.even move (possibly carrying away the
opponent), provided it can drag the opponent's weight.

Incorporeal Subtype: An incorporeal creature has no physical
body. It can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, magic
weapons or creatures that strike as magic weapons, and spells,
spell-like abilities, or supernatural abilities. It is immune to all
nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells or magic weap-
ons, it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal
source (except for positive energy, negative energy, force effects
such as magic missile, or attacks made with ghost touch weapons).
Although it is not a magical attack, holy water can affect incorpo-
real undead, but a hit with holy water has a 50% chance of not
affecting an incorporeal creature.

An incorporeal creature has no natural armor bonus but hasa
deflection bonus equal.to its Charisma bonus (always at least +1,.even
if the creature's Charisma score does not normally provide.a bonus).

An incorporeal creature can enter or pass through solid objects,
but must remain adjacent tothe object's exterior, and so cannot!
pass entirely through an object whose space is larger than its own. |

\It-can sense the presence of creatures or objects within a square

{adjacent to its current location, but enemies have total conceal-
iment (50% miss chance) from an incorporeal creature that is
inside an object. In order to see farther from the object it is in and
