attack normally, the incorporeal creature must emerge, An incor have supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but sometimes are |

poreal creature inside an object has total cover, but when it attacks merely bizarre in appearance or habits. j
acreature outside the object it only has cover, soa creature outside Features: A. magical beast has the following features. |
with a readied action could strike ar itas it attacks, An incorporeal —10-sided Hit Dice.

creature cannot pass through a force effect. | —Base attack bonus equal to rotal Hit Dice (as fighter).

An incorporeal creature's attacks pass through (ignore) natural! _| —Good Fortitude and Reflex saves,
armor, armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force, _,_ —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
| effects (such as mage armor).work normally against it. Incorporeal, | Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
\creatures pass through and operate in water as easily as they do in) Truits: A magical beast possesses the eae traits (unless orh-|
|ait. Incorporeal creatures cannot fall or take falling damage. Incor-| _lerwise noted in a creature's entry). |
|poreal creatures cannot make trip or grapple attacks, nor can they | —Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
be tripped or grappled. In fact,.they cannot take any physical action —Proficient with its natural weapons only. —
[that would move or manipulate an opponent or its equipment, nor —Proficient with no armor.
are they subject to such actions, Incorporeal creatures have no —Magical beasts eat, sleep, and breathe. }
weight and do not set off traps that are triggered by weight. 4
An incorporeal creature moyes silently and cannot be heard Manufactured Weapons: Some monsters employ _manufac-

with Listen checks if it doesnt wish to be. It has no Strength score, .tured weapons when they attack. Creatures that use swords, bows,
\so. its Dexterity. modifier applies to both its melee attacks and its, _{spears, and the like follow the same rules as characters, including,
| ranged attacks, Nonvisual senses, such as scent and blindsight,are| —_,those for additional attacks from.a high base attack bonus and_
leither ineffective or only partly effective with regard to incorpo-|. _,xwo-weapon fighting penalties. This category also includes “found
real creatures. Incorporeal creatures have an innate sense of direc-| items,” such as rocks and logs, that.a creature wields in. combar—
tion and can move at full speed even when they cannot see. in essence, any.weapon thar is not intrinsic.to the creature.

Some creatures combine attacks with natural and manufac-|
Lawful: A subtype usually applied only to outsiders native to tured weapons when they make a full attack, When they.do so, the

  

the lawful-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that have this sub- manufactured weapon attack is considered the primary_attack
type also have lawful alignments; however, if their alignments unless the creature's description indicates otherwise (using the,
change, they still retain the subtype, Any effect that depends on. manufactured weapon consumes most of the creature's attention), |
jalignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature has and any natural weapons the creature also uses are considered sec-|
a lawful alignment, no matter what its alignment actually is. The ondary natural attacks, These secondary attacks do not interfere |
creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. A with the primary attack as attacking with an off-hand weapon.
creature with the lawful subtype overcomes. damage reduction as does, but they take the usual -5 penalty (or -2 with the Multiat-|
\i£its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were lawful- tack feat) for such attacks, even if the natural weapon used is nor-|
saligned (see Damage Reduction, above). mally the creature's primary natural weapon. }
Level Adjustment: Certain monsters can used as.the basis for Monstrous Humanoid Type: Monstrous humanoids are simi-
interesting, viable player characters, These creatures have a level _lar to humanoids, but with monstrous or animalistic features.
adjustmententry, which is a number that is added to the creature's They often have magical abilities as well.
total Hit Dice to arrive at its effective character level. A creature, Features: A monstrous humanoid has the following features.
with multiple special abilities is more powerful as a player charac: | —8-sided Hit Dice.
ter than its Hit Dice alone would indicate. For example, a drow elf —Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter)
has spell resistance, bonuses to its ability scores, and spell-like —Good Reflex and Will saves,
abilities, Its level adjustment of +2 indicates that.a tst-level drow —Skill points equal.to.(2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
wizard is the equivalent of a 3rd-level character. Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die,
Some creatures’ level adjustment entries include the word ‘Tmits: A monstrous humanoid possesses the following traits
*(cohort).” Although these creatures may be problematic as PCs, (unless otherwise noted in a creature's entry).
they make good companions fora. character who has taken the —Darkvision out to 60 feet,
Leadership feat. Some other creatures arent intended for use as —Proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons men-
PCs or cohorts but can become companions through the use of tioned in its entry.
the Improved Familiar feat. In these cases, the level adjustment —Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
entry.is.a dash followed by the words “(Improved Familiar).” heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Mon-
Level adjustment is not the same thing as an adjustment toa _strous humanoids not indicated as wearing armor are not profi-
creature's Challenge Rating because of some special qualities it cient.wwith armor, Monstrous humanoids are proficient with
possesses. Challenge Rating reflects how difficult an opponent is shields if they are proficient with any_form of armor.
to fight in a limited number.of encounters. Level adjustment —Monstrous humanoids ear, sleep, and breathe,
shows how powerful a creature is asa player character or cohort in
campaign play, For instance, a drow receives a +1 adjustment to its Movement Modes: Creatures may have modes of movement
Challenge Rating to account for its special abilities, indicating other than walking and running. These are natural, not magical,
that it's tougher in a fight than its Hit Dice would suggest, but its unless specifically noted in a monster description
level adjustment is +2 to balance its abilities over long-term play. Burrow: A creature with a burrow speed can tunnel through dirt, |
but not through rock unless the descriptive text says otherwise.
._Low-Light Vision (Ex): A creature with low-light vision can Creatures cannot charge or run while burrowing. Most burrowing |
\see twice as far as.a human in starlight, moonlight, rorchlight, and creatures do not leave behind tunnels other creatures can.use|
|similar conditions of shadowy illumination. It retains the ability (either because the material they tunnel through fills in behind |
{to distinguish color and detail under these conditions. oa ithem or because they do not.actually dislocate any material when.
[burrowing); see the individual creature descriptions for details.
Magical Beast Type: Magical beasts are similar to animals but, _|__Climb: A crearure with a climb speed has a +8 racial bonus on all

can have Intelligence scores higher than 2. Magical beasts usually., Climb checks. The creature must make a Climb check to climb any

 
