much wealth a creature owns. (See pages 52-56.of the Dungeon
Master's Guide for details about treasure, particularly Tables 3-5,
through 3-8.) In most cases, a creature keeps valuables in its home
or lair and has no treasure with it when it travels. Intelligent crea~

tures that own useful, portable treasure (such as magic items) tend |

to carry and use these, leaving bulky items at home,

Treasure can include coins, goods, and items, Creatures can,

have varying amounts of each, as follows,

Standard: Refer to Table 3~5 in. the Dungeon Master's Guide and,
roll. d%.once for each type.of treasure (Coins, Goods, Items) on the |

Level section of the table that corresponds to the creature's Chal-
lenge Rating (for groups of creatures, use the Encounter Level for
the encounter instead),

Some creatures have double, triple, or even quadruple standard
treasure; in these cases, roll for each type of treasure two, three, or
four times.

None: The creature. collects no treasure of its own.

Nonstandard: Some. creatures have quirks or habits that affect|
ithe types of treasure they collect. These creatures use the same)

treasure tables, but with special adjustments.

Fractional Coins; Roll on the Coins column in the section corre-
sponding to the creature's Challenge Rating, but divide the result
as indicated.

% Goods or Items: The creature has goods or items only some of
the time. Before checking for goods or items, roll d% against the
given percentage. On a success, make a normal roll on the appro-

|priate Goods or Items column (which may still result in no goods
loritems).

Double Goods or Items: Roll twice on the appropriate Goods or
Items column.

Parenthetical Notes: Some entries for goods or items include
notes that limit the types of treasure a creature collects,

When a note includes the word “no,” it means the creature does
not collect or cannot keep that thing, If .random roll generates
such a result, treat the result as “none” instead, For example, if a
creature's “items” entry reads “no flammables,” and a random roll
generates a scroll, the creature instead has no item atall (the scroll.
burned up, or the creature left it behind),

 

When a note includes the word “only,” the creature goes out of |
its way to collect treasure of the indicated type. If an entry for,
goods indicates “gems only," roll on the appropriate Goods column ,

and treat any “art” result as “gems” instead.

It's sometimes necessary to reroll until the right sort of item
appears. For example, if a creature's items entry reads “nonflamma-
bles only,” roll normally on the appropriate Items column. If you
get a flammable item, reroll on the same portion of the table until
you get a nonflammable one. If the rable you rolled on contains
only flammable items, back up a step_and reroll until you get to a
table that can give you an appropriate item.

 

Turn Resistance (Ex): A creature with this special quality (usu-
ally an undead) is less easily affected by clerics or paladins (see
Turn or Rebuke Undead, page 159 of the Player's Handbook), When
resolving a turn, rebuke, command, or bolster attempt, add the
indicated number to the creature's Hit Dice total. For example, a
shadow has 3 Hit Dice and +2 turn resistance. Attempts to turn,
rebuke, command, or bolster treat the. shadow as though it had s
Hit Dice, though it is 2 3 HD creature for any.other purpose.

Undead ‘ype: Undead are once-living creatures animated by
\spiritual or supernatural forces,
Features, An.undead creature has the following features,
—12-sided Hit Dice.
—Base attack bonus equal to 1/2 total Hit Dice (as wizard),
—Good Will saves,
—Skill points equal to (4 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit

Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the undead |

creature has an Intelligence score, However, many undead are,
mindless and gain no skill points or feats,

Tmuits: An undead creature possesses the following traits (unless i
otherwise noted in a creature's entry).

—No Constitution score.

—Darkvision out to. 60 feet.

—Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compul-
sions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects),

—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, dis-,

 

ease, and death effects.

—Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability drain, or)
energy drain. Immune to damage to its physical ability scores
(Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution), as well as to farigue and
exhaustion effects,

—Cannot heal damage on its own if ithas.no_Intelligence
score, although it can be healed. Negative energy (such as.an inflict

spell) can heal undead creatures. The fast healing special quality
[works regardless of the creatures Intelligence score

—Immunity to any. effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless |
ithe effect also works on objects or is harmless).

—Uses its Charisma modifier for Concentration checks,

—Not at risk of death from massive damage, but when reduced.
to.0 hit points or less, it is immediately destroyed.

—Not affected by raise. dead and reincarnate spells or abilities,
Resurrection and true resurrection can affect undead creatures, These
spells turn undead creatures back into.the living creatures.they
were before becoming undead.

—Proficient with its natural weapons, all simple weapons, and |
any weapons mentioned in its entry.

—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light. medium, or
heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types, Un-|
dead not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor,
Undead are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any
form of armor.

—Undead do not breathe, eat, or sleep,

Vermin Type: This type includes insects, arachnids, other
arthropods, worms, and similar invertebrates,

Features: Vermin have the following features.

—8-sided Hit Dice.

—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 toral Hit Dice (as cleric),

—Good Fortitude saves,

—Skill points equal to.(2 + Inumodifier, minimum 1) per Hit
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the vermin
has an Intelligence score. However, most vermin are mindless and
gain no skill points or feats.

Traits; Vermin possess the following traits (unless otherwise
noted in a creature's entry),

—Mindless; No Intelligence score, and immunity to all mind-
affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and
morale effects),

—Darkvision our to 60 feet,

—Proficient with their natural weapons only.

—Proficient with no armor.

—Vermin breathe, eat, and sleep.

 

Vulnerability to Energy: Some creatures have vulnerability 10
a certain kind of energy effect (typically either cold or fire), Such,
a creature takes half again 2s much (450%) damage as normal from |
the effect, regardless of whether a saving throw is allowed, or if the.
saye isa success or failure,

Water Subtype: This subtype usually is used for elementals)

‘and outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane of Water.
| Creatures with the water subtype always have swim speeds and
,can.move in water without making Swim checks. A water creature

can breathe underwater and usually can breathe air as well.

 
