 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ust about every die roll you make is going to be modified 
based on your character’s abilities. A tough character has 
a better chance of surviving a wyvern’s poison sting. A 
perceptive character is more likely to notice bugbears 
sneaking up from behind. A stupid character is not as 
likely to find a secret door that leads to a hidden treasure 
chamber. Your ability scores tell you what your modifiers are for 
rolls such as these. 
Your character has six abilities: Strength (abbreviated Str), Dex-
terity (Dex), Constitution (Con), Intelligence (Int), Wisdom (Wis), 
and Charisma (Cha). Each of your character’s above-average abilities 
gives you a benefit on certain die rolls, and each below-average 
ability gives you a disadvantage on other die rolls. When creating 
your character, you roll your scores randomly, assign them to the 
abilities as you like, and raise and lower them according to the 
character’s race. Later, you can increase them as your character 
advances in experience. 
 
ABILITY SCORES 
To create an ability score for your character, roll four six-sided dice 
(4d6). Disregard the lowest die roll and total the three highest ones. 
The result is a number between 3 (horrible) and 18 (tremendous). 
The average ability score for the typical commoner is 10 or 11, but 
your character is not typical. The most common ability scores for 
player characters (PCs) are 12 and 13. (That’s right, the average 
player character is above average.) 
Make this roll six times, recording each result on a piece of paper. 
Once you have six scores, assign each score to one of the six abilities. 
At this step, you need to know what kind of person your character is 
going to be, including his or her race and class, in order to know 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
how best to distribute the ability scores. Choosing a race other 
than human or half-elf causes some of these ability scores to 
change (see Table 2–1: Racial Ability Adjustments, page 12). 
 
ABILITY MODIFIERS 
Each ability, after changes made because of race, has a modifier 
ranging from –5 to +5. Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus 
Spells (on the next page) shows the modifier for each score. It 
also shows bonus spells, which you’ll need to know about if 
your character is a spellcaster. 
The modifier is the number you apply to the die roll when 
your character tries to do something related to that ability. 
For instance, you apply your character’s Strength modifier to 
your roll when he or she tries to hit someone with a sword. 
You also use the modifier with some numbers that aren’t die 
rolls—for example, you apply your character’s Dexterity 
modifier to his or her Armor Class (AC). A positive 
modifier is called a bonus, and a negative modifier is called 
a penalty. 
 
ABILITIES AND SPELLCASTERS 
The ability that governs bonus spells (see Chapter 3: 
Classes) depends on what type of spellcaster your 
character is: Intelligence for wizards; Wisdom for clerics, 
druids, paladins, and rangers; or Charisma for sorcerers and 
bards. In addition to having a high ability score, a spellcaster 
must be of high enough class level to be able to cast spells of 
a given spell level. (See the class descriptions in Chapter 3 
for details.) For instance, the wizard Mialee has an 
