 
 16 
Male Names:  Aramil, Aust, Enialis, Heian, Himo, Ivellios, Lau-
cian, Quarion, Soverliss, Thamior, Tharivol. 
Female Names: Anastrianna, Antinua, Drusilia, Felosial, Ielenia, 
Lia, Mialee, Qillathe, Silaqui, Vadania, Valanthe, Xanaphia. 
Family Names (Common Translations):  Amastacia 
(Starflower), Amakiir (Gemflower), Galanodel (Moonwhisper), 
Holimion (Diamonddew), Liadon (Silverfrond), Meliamne (Oak-
enheel), Naïlo (Nightbreeze), Siannodel (Moonbrook), Ilphukiir 
(Gemblossom), Xiloscient (Goldpetal). 
Adventurers: Elves take up adventuring out of wanderlust. Life 
among humans moves at a pace that elves dislike: regimented from 
day to day but changing from decade to decade. Elves among 
humans, therefore, find careers that allow them to wander freely 
and set their own pace. Elves also enjoy demonstrating their 
prowess with the sword and bow or gaining greater magical powers, 
and adventuring allows them to do so. Good elves may also be rebels 
or crusaders. 
 
ELF RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 +2 Dexterity, –2 Constitution: Elves are graceful but frail. An elf’s 
grace makes her naturally better at stealth and archery. 
/rhombus4 Medium: As Medium creatures, elves have no special bonuses or 
penalties due to their size. 
/rhombus4 Elf base land speed is 30 feet. 
/rhombus4 Immunity to magic sleep effects, and a +2 racial saving throw 
bonus against enchantment spells or effects. 
/rhombus4 Low-light Vision: An elf can see twice as far as a human in 
starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor 
illumination. She retains the ability to distinguish color and detail 
under these conditions. 
/rhombus4 Weapon Proficiency: Elves receive the Martial Weapon Profi-
ciency feats for the longsword, rapier, longbow (including 
composite longbow), and shortbow (including composite 
shortbow) as bonus feats. Elves esteem the arts of swordplay and 
archery, so all elves are familiar with these weapons. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. An elf who 
merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door is 
entitled to a Search check to notice it as if she were actively 
looking for it. An elf’s senses are so keen that she practically has a 
sixth sense about hidden portals. 
/rhombus4 Automatic Languages: Common and Elven. Bonus Languages: 
Draconic, Gnoll, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, and Sylvan. Elves com-
monly know the languages of their enemies and of their friends, 
as well as Draconic, the language commonly found in ancient 
tomes of secret knowledge. 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Wizard. A multiclass elf’s wizard class does not 
count when determining whether she takes an experience point 
penalty for multiclassing (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 
60). Wizardry comes naturally to elves—indeed, they sometimes 
claim to have invented it, and fighter/wizards are especially 
common among them. 
 
GNOMES 
Gnomes are welcome everywhere as technicians, alchemists, and 
inventors. Despite the demand for their skills, most gnomes prefer 
to remain among their own kind, living in comfortable burrows 
beneath rolling, wooded hills where animals abound. 
Personality: Gnomes adore animals, beautiful gems, and jokes of 
all kinds. Members of this race have a great sense of humor, and 
while they love puns, jokes, and games, they relish tricks—the more 
intricate the better. They apply the same dedication to more 
practical arts, such as engineering, as they do to their pranks. 
Gnomes are inquisitive. They love to find things out by personal 
experience. At times they’re even reckless. Their curiosity makes 
them skilled engineers, since they are always trying new ways to 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 