 
 17
build things. Sometimes a gnome pulls a prank just to see how the 
people involved will react. 
Physical Description:  Gnomes stand about 3 to 3-1/2 feet tall 
and weigh 40 to 45 pounds. Their skin ranges from dark tan to 
woody brown, their hair is fair, and their eyes can be any shade of 
blue. Gnome males prefer short, carefully trimmed beards. Gnomes 
generally wear leather or earth tones, and they decorate their clothes 
with intricate stitching or fine jewelry. Gnomes reach adulthood at 
about age 40, and they live about 350 years, though some can live 
almost 500 years. 
Relations: Gnomes get along well with dwarves, who share their 
love of precious objects, their curiosity about mechanical devices, 
and their hatred of goblins and giants. They enjoy the company of 
halflings, especially those who are easygoing enough to put up with 
pranks and jests. Most gnomes are a little suspicious of the taller 
races—humans, elves, half-elves, and half-orcs—but they are rarely 
hostile or malicious. 
Alignment: Gnomes are most often good. Those who tend 
toward law are sages, engineers, researchers, scholars, investigators, 
or consultants. Those who tend toward chaos are minstrels, 
tricksters, wanderers, or fanciful jewelers. Gnomes are good-hearted, 
and even the tricksters among them are more playful than vicious. 
Evil gnomes are as rare as they are frightening. 
Gnome Lands:  Gnomes make their homes in hilly, wooded 
lands. They live underground but get more fresh air than dwarves 
do, enjoying the natural, living world on the surface whenever they 
can. Their homes are well hidden, by both clever construction and 
illusions. Those who come to visit and are welcome are ushered into 
the bright, warm burrows. Those who are not welcome never find 
the burrows in the first place. 
Gnomes who settle in human lands are commonly gemcutters, 
mechanics, sages, or tutors. Some human families retain gnome 
tutors. During his life, a gnome tutor can teach several generations 
of a single human family. 
Religion: The chief gnome god is Garl Glittergold, the Watchful 
Protector. His clerics teach that gnomes are to cherish and support 
their communities. Pranks are seen as ways to lighten spirits and to 
keep gnomes humble, not as ways for pranksters to triumph over 
those they trick. 
Language: The Gnome language, which uses the Dwarven script, 
is renowned for its technical treatises and its catalogs of knowledge 
about the natural world. Human herbalists, naturalists, and 
engineers commonly learn Gnome in order to read the best books 
on their topics of study. 
Names: Gnomes love names, and most have half a dozen or so. As 
a gnome grows up, his mother gives him a name, his father gives 
him a name, his clan elder gives him a name, his aunts and uncles 
give him names, and he gains nicknames from just about anyone. 
Gnome names are typically variants on the names of ancestors or 
distant relatives, though some are purely new inventions. When 
dealing with humans and others who are rather “stuffy” about 
names, a gnome learns to act as if he has no more than three names: 
a personal name, a clan name, and a nickname. When deciding 
which of his several names to use among humans, a gnome 
generally chooses the one that’s the most fun to say. Gnome clan 
names are combinations of common Gnome words, and gnomes 
almost always translate them into Common when in human lands 
(or into Elven when in elven lands, and so on). 
Male Names: Boddynock, Dimble, Fonkin, Gimble, Glim, Gerbo, 
Jebeddo, Namfoodle, Roondar, Seebo, Zook. 
Female Names:  Bimpnottin, Caramip, Duvamil, Ellywick, 
Ellyjobell, Loopmottin, Mardnab, Roywyn, Shamil, Waywocket. 
Clan Names:  Beren, Daergel, Folkor, Garrick, Nackle, Murnig, 
Ningel, Raulnor, Scheppen, Turen. 
Nicknames: Aleslosh, Ashhearth, Badger, Cloak, Doublelock, 
Filchbatter, Fnipper, Oneshoe, Sparklegem, Stumbleduck. 
Adventurers: Gnomes are curious and impulsive. They may take 
up adventuring as a way to see the world or for the love of exploring. 
Lawful gnomes may adventure to set things right and to protect the 
innocent, demonstrating the same sense of duty toward society as a 
whole that gnomes generally exhibit toward their own enclaves. As 
lovers of gems and other fine items, some gnomes take to 
adventuring as a quick, if dangerous, path to wealth. Depending on 
his relations to his home clan, an adventuring gnome may be seen as 
a vagabond or even something of a traitor (for abandoning clan 
responsibilities). 
 
GNOME RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 +2 Constitution, –2 Strength: Like dwarves, gnomes are tough, 
but they are small and therefore not as strong as larger 
humanoids. 
/rhombus4 Small: As a Small creature, a gnome gains a +1 size bonus to 
Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus 
on Hide checks, but he uses smaller weapons than humans use, 
and his lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of a 
Medium character. 
/rhombus4 Gnome base land speed is 20 feet. 
/rhombus4 Low-light Vision: A gnome can see twice as far as a human in 
starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor 
illumination. He retains the ability to distinguish color and detail 
under these conditions. 
/rhombus4 Weapon Familiarity: Gnomes may treat gnome hooked hammers 
(see page 118) as martial weapons rather than exotic weapons. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on saving throws against illusions: Gnomes are 
innately familiar with illusions of all kinds. 
/rhombus4 Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against 
illusion spells cast by gnomes. Their innate familiarity with these 
effects make their illusions more difficult to see through. This 
adjustment stacks with those from similar effects, such as the 
Spell Focus feat. 
/rhombus4 +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against kobolds and goblinoids 
(including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears): Gnomes battle 
these creatures frequently and practice special techniques for 
fighting them. 
/rhombus4 +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against monsters of the giant type 
(such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants): This bonus represents 
special training that gnomes undergo, during which they learn 
tricks that previous generations developed in their battles with 
giants. Any time a creature loses its Dexterity bonus (if any) to 
Armor Class, such as when it’s caught flat-footed, it loses its dodge 
bonus, too. The Monster Manual  has information on which 
creatures are of the giant type. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Listen checks: Gnomes have keen ears. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks: A gnome’s sensitive 
nose allows him to monitor alchemical processes by smell. 
/rhombus4 Automatic Languages: Common and Gnome. Bonus Languages: 
Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, and Orc. Gnomes deal 
more with elves and dwarves than elves and dwarves deal with 
one another, and they learn the languages of their enemies 
(kobolds, giants, goblins, and orcs) as well. In addition, a gnome 
can use speak with a burrowing mammal (a badger, fox, rabbit, or 
the like, see below). This ability is innate to gnomes. See the speak 
with animals spell description, page 281. 
/rhombus4 Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day— speak with animals  (burrowing 
mammal only, duration 1 minute). A gnome with a Charisma 
score of at least 10 also has the following spell-like abilities: 
1/day—dancing lights , ghost sound , prestidigitation. Caster level 1st; 
save DC 10 + gnome’s Cha modifier + spell level. See the spell 
descriptions on pages 216, 235, and 264, respectively. 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Bard. A multiclass gnome’s bard class does not 
count when determining whether he takes an experience point 
penalty (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60). 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 