 
 18 
HALF-ELVES 
Humans and elves sometimes wed, the elf attracted to the human’s 
energy and the human to the elf’s grace. These marriages end 
quickly as elves count years because a human’s life is so brief, but 
they leave an enduring legacy—half-elf children. 
The life of a half-elf can be hard. If raised by elves, the half-elf 
seems to grow with astounding speed, reaching maturity within two 
decades. The half-elf becomes an adult long before she has had time 
to learn the intricacies of elven art and culture, or even grammar. 
She leaves behind her childhood friends, becoming physically an 
adult but culturally still a child by elven standards. Typically, she 
leaves her elven home, which is no longer familiar, and finds her 
way among humans. 
If, on the other hand, she is raised by humans, the half-elf finds 
herself different from her peers: more aloof, more sensitive, less 
ambitious, and slower to mature. Some half-elves try to fit in among 
humans, while others find their identities in their difference. Most 
find places for themselves in human lands, but some feel like 
outsiders all their lives. 
Personality: Most half-elves have the curiosity, inventiveness, 
and ambition of the human parent, along with the refined senses, 
love of nature, and artistic tastes of the elf parent. 
Physical Description: To humans, half-elves look like elves. To 
elves, they look like humans—indeed, elves call them half-humans. 
Half-elf height ranges from under 5 feet to about 6 feet tall, and 
weight usually ranges from 100 to 180 pounds. Half-elf men are 
taller and heavier than half-elf women, but the difference is less 
pronounced than that found among humans. Half-elves are paler, 
fairer, and smoother-skinned than their human parents, but their 
actual skin tone, hair color, and other details vary just as human 
features do. Half-elves’ eyes are green, just as are those of their elf 
parents. A half-elf reaches adulthood at age 20 and can live to be over 
180 years old. 
Most half-elves are the children of human–elf pairings. Some, 
however, are the children of parents who themselves are partly 
human and partly elf. Some of these “second generation” half-elves 
have humanlike eyes, but most still have green eyes. 
Relations: Half-elves do well among both elves and humans, and 
they also get along well with dwarves, gnomes, and halflings. They 
have elven grace without elven aloofness, human energy without 
human boorishness. They make excellent ambassadors and go-
betweens (except between elves and humans, since each side 
suspects the half-elf of favoring the other). In human lands where 
elves are distant or not on friendly terms with other races, however, 
half-elves are viewed with suspicion. 
Some half-elves show a marked disfavor toward half-orcs. Perhaps 
the similarities between themselves and half-orcs (a partly human 
lineage) makes these half-elves uncomfortable. 
Alignment: Half-elves share the chaotic bent of their elven 
heritage, but, like humans, they tend toward both good and evil in 
equal proportion. Like elves, they value personal freedom and cre-
ative expression, demonstrating neither love of leaders nor desire 
for followers. They chafe at rules, resent others’ demands, and 
sometimes prove unreliable, or at least unpredictable. 
Half-Elven Lands: Half-elves have no lands of their own, though 
they are welcome in human cities and elven forests. In large cities, 
half-elves sometimes form small communities of their own. 
Religion: Half-elves raised among elves follow elven deities, 
principally Corellon Larethian (god of the elves). Those raised 
among humans often follow Ehlonna (goddess of the woodlands). 
Language: Half-elves speak the languages they are born to, 
Common and Elven. Half-elves are slightly clumsy with the 
intricate Elven language, though only elves notice, and even so half-
elves do better than nonelves. 
Names: Half-elves use either human or elven naming conven-
tions. Ironically, a half-elf raised among humans is often given an 
elven name in honor of her heritage, just as a half-elf raised among 
elves often takes a human name. 
Adventurers: Half-elves find themselves drawn to strange 
careers and unusual company. Taking up the life of an adventurer 
comes easily to many of them. Like elves, they are driven by wan-
derlust. 
 
HALF-ELF RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 Medium: As Medium creatures, half-elves have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 
/rhombus4 Half-elf base land speed is 30 feet. 
/rhombus4 Immunity to sleep spells and similar magical effects, and a +2 racial 
bonus on saving throw against enchantment spells or effects. 
/rhombus4 Low-light Vision: A half-elf can see twice as far as a human in 
starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor 
illumination. She retains the ability to distinguish color and detail 
under these conditions. 
/rhombus4 +1 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks: A half-elf does 
not have the elf’s ability to notice secret doors simply by passing 
near them. Half-elves have keen senses, but not as keen as those 
of an elf. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy and Gather Information checks: 
Half-elves get along naturally with all people. 
/rhombus4 Elven Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-elf is considered 
an elf. Half-elves, for example, are just as vulnerable to special 
effects that affect elves as their elf ancestors are, and they can use 
magic items that are only usable by elves. (See the Monster Manual 
for more information about elves, and the Dungeon Master’s Guide  
for more on magic items.) 
/rhombus4 Automatic Languages: Common and Elven. Bonus Languages: 
Any (other than secret languages, such as Druidic). Half-elves 
have all the versatility and broad (if shallow) experience that 
humans have. 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass half-
elf takes an experience point penalty, her highest-level class does 
not count (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60). 
  
HALF-ORCS 
In the wild frontiers, tribes of human and orc barbarians live in 
uneasy balance, fighting in times of war and trading in times of 
peace. Half-orcs who are born in the frontier may live with either 
human or orc parents, but they are nevertheless exposed to both 
cultures. Some, for whatever reason, leave their homeland and travel 
to civilized lands, bringing with them the tenacity, courage, and 
combat prowess that they developed in the wilds. 
Personality: Half-orcs tend to be short-tempered and sullen. 
They would rather act than ponder and would rather fight than 
argue. Those who are successful, however, are those with enough 
self-control to live in a civilized land, not the crazy ones. 
Half-orcs love simple pleasures such as feasting, drinking, 
boasting, singing, wrestling, drumming, and wild dancing. Refined 
enjoyments such as poetry, courtly dancing, and philosophy are lost 
on them. At the right sort of party, a half-orc is an asset. At the 
duchess’s grand ball, he’s a liability. 
Physical Description: Half-orcs stand between 6 and 7 feet tall 
and usually weigh between 180 and 250 pounds. A half-orc’s grayish 
pigmentation, sloping forehead, jutting jaw, prominent teeth, and 
coarse body hair make his lineage plain for all to see. 
Orcs like scars. They regard battle scars as tokens of pride and 
ornamental scars as things of beauty. Any half-orc who has lived 
among or near orcs has scars, whether they are marks of shame 
indicating servitude and identifying the half-orc’s former owner, or 
marks of pride recounting conquests and high status. Such a half-orc 
living among humans may either display or hide his scars, 
depending on his attitude toward them. 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 