 
 26 
struck down by an arrow in order to get the extra hit points from the 
increased Constitution, although the extra hit points would be of 
benefit if he had gone into a rage earlier in the round, before the 
arrow struck 
Uncanny Dodge (Ex):  At 2nd level, a barbarian gains the ability 
to react to danger before his senses would normally allow him to do 
so. He retains his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) even if he is caught 
flat-footed or struck by an invisible attacker. However, he still loses 
his Dexterity bonus to AC if immobilized. 
If a barbarian already has uncanny dodge from a different class (a 
barbarian with at least four levels of rogue, for example), he 
automatically gains improved uncanny dodge (see below) instead. 
Trap Sense (Ex): Starting at 3rd level, a barbarian has an intuitive 
sense that alerts him to danger from traps, giving him a +1 bonus on 
Reflex saves made to avoid traps and a +1 dodge bonus to AC against 
attacks made by traps. These bonuses rise by +1 every three 
barbarian levels thereafter (6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th level). Trap 
sense bonuses gained from multiple classes stack. 
Improved Uncanny Dodge (Ex):  At 5th level and higher, a 
barbarian can no longer be flanked; he can react to opponents on 
opposite sides of him as easily as he can react to a single attacker. 
This defense denies a rogue the ability to sneak attack the barbarian 
by flanking him, unless the attacker has at least four more rogue 
levels than the target has barbarian levels. 
If a character already has uncanny dodge (see above) from a 
second class, the character automatically gains improved uncanny 
dodge instead, and the levels from the classes that grant uncanny 
dodge stack to determine the minimum level a rogue must be to 
flank the character. 
Damage Reduction (Ex):  At 7th level, a barbarian gains the 
ability to shrug off some amount of injury from each blow or attack. 
Subtract 1 from the damage the barbarian takes each time he is dealt 
damage from a weapon or a natural attack. At 10th level, and every 
three barbarian levels thereafter (13th, 16th, and 19th level), this 
damage reduction rises by 1 point. Damage reduction can reduce 
damage to 0 but not below 0. 
Greater Rage (Ex):  At 11th level, a barbarian’s bonuses to 
Strength and Constitution during his rage each increase to +6, and 
his morale bonus on Will saves increases to +3. The penalty to AC 
remains at –2. 
Indomitable Will (Ex): While in a rage, a barbarian of 14th level 
or higher gains a +4 bonus on Will saves to resist enchantment 
spells. This bonus stacks with all other modifiers, including the 
morale bonus on Will saves he also receives during his rage. 
Tireless Rage (Ex):  At 17th level and higher, a barbarian no 
longer becomes fatigued at the end of his rage. 
Mighty Rage (Ex):  At 20th level, a barbarian’s bonuses to 
Strength and Constitution during his rage each increase to +8, and 
his morale bonus on Will saves increases to +4. The penalty to AC 
remains at –2. 
 
Ex-Barbarians 
A barbarian who becomes lawful loses the ability to rage and cannot 
gain more levels as a barbarian. He retains all the other benefits of 
the class (damage reduction, fast movement, trap sense, and 
uncanny dodge). 
 
Half-Orc Barbarian Starting Package 
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC, armor check penalty –1, speed 
40 ft., 20 lb.). 
Weapons: Greataxe (1d12, crit ×3, 12 lb., two-handed, slashing). 
Shortbow (1d6, crit ×3, range inc. 60 ft., 2 lb., Piercing). 
Dagger (1d4, crit 19–20/×2, range inc. 10 ft., 1 lb., light, piercing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 4 + Int modifier. 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Climb 4 Str –1 
Survival 4 Wis — 
Listen 4 Wis — 
Jump 4 Str –1 
Swim 4 Str –2 
Ride 4 Dex — 
Intimidate 4 Cha — 
Spot (cc) 2 Wis —
 
 
Feat: Weapon Focus (greataxe). 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Quiver with 20 arrows. 
Gold: 2d4 gp. 
 
BARD 
It is said that music has a special magic, and the bard proves that 
saying true. Wandering across the land, gathering lore, telling sto-
ries, working magic with his music, and living on the gratitude of 
his audience—such is the life of a bard. When chance or opportu-
nity draws them into a conflict, bards serve as diplomats, negotia-
tors, messengers, scouts, and spies. 
A bard’s magic comes from the heart. If his heart is good, a bard 
brings hope and courage to the downtrodden and uses his tricks, 
music, and magic to thwart the schemes of evildoers. If the nobles of 
the land are corrupt, the good bard is an enemy of the state, 
cunningly evading capture and raising the spirits of the oppressed. 
But music can spring from an evil heart as well. Evil bards forego 
blatant violence in favor of manipulation, holding sway over the 
hearts and minds of others and taking what enraptured audiences 
“willingly” give. 
Adventures: Bards see adventures as opportunities to learn. They 
practice their many skills and abilities, and they especially relish the 
opportunity to enter a long-forgotten tomb, to discover ancient 
works of magic, to decipher old tomes, to travel to strange places, to 
encounter exotic creatures, and to learn new songs and stories. Bards 
love to accompany heroes (and villains), joining their entourage to 
witness their deeds firsthand—a bard who can tell a marvelous story 
from personal experience earns renown among his fellows. Indeed, 
after telling so many stories about heroes doing mighty deeds, many 
bards take these themes to heart and assume heroic roles them-
selves. 
Characteristics: A bard brings forth magic from his soul, not 
from a book. He can cast only a small number of spells, but he can 
do so without selecting or preparing them in advance. His magic 
emphasizes charms and illusions over the more dramatic evocation 
spells that wizards and sorcerers often use. 
In addition to spells, a bard works magic with his music and 
poetry. He can encourage allies, hold his audiences rapt, and counter 
magical effects that rely on speech or sound. 
Bards have some of the skills that rogues have, although bards 
they are not as focused on skill mastery as rogues are. A bard listens 
to stories as well as telling them, of course, so he has a vast knowl-
edge of local events and noteworthy items. 
Alignment: Bards are wanderers, guided by whim and intuition 
rather than by tradition or law. The spontaneous talent, magic, and 
lifestyle of the bard are incompatible with a lawful alignment. 
Religion: Bards revere Fharlanghn (god of roads). They some-
times camp near his wayside shrines, hoping to earn some coin from 
the travelers who stop to leave offerings for the god. Many bards, 
even those who are not elves, worship Corellon Larethian, god of 
elves and patron of poetry and music. Many good bards are partial to 
Pelor (god of the sun), believing that he watches over them in their 
travels. Bards given to chaos and occasional larceny favor 
Olidammara (god of thieves). Those who have turned to evil ways 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 