 
 30 
long as the ally hears the bard sing and for up to 5 rounds thereafter. 
Inspire heroics is a mind-affecting ability. 
Mass Suggestion (Sp):  This ability functions like suggestion, above, 
except that a bard of 18th level or higher with 21 or more ranks in a 
Perform skill can make the suggestion simultaneously to any number 
of creatures that he has already fascinated (see above). Mass suggestion 
is an enchantment (compulsion), mind-affecting, language-depen-
dent ability. 
 
Ex-Bards 
A bard who becomes lawful in alignment cannot progress in levels 
as a bard, though he retains all his bard abilities. 
 
Gnome Bard Starting Package 
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC, armor check penalty –1, arcane 
spell failure chance n/a, speed 20 ft., 10 lb.). 
Weapons: Longsword (1d6, crit 19–20/×2, 2 lb., one-handed, 
slashing). 
Light crossbow (1d6, crit 19–20/×2, range inc. 80 ft., 2 lb., pierc-
ing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 6 + Int modifier. 
 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Perform (string instruments) 4 Cha — 
Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Use Magic Device 4 Cha — 
Gather Information 4 Cha — 
Listen 4 Wis — 
Decipher Script 4 Int — 
Diplomacy 4 Cha — 
Knowledge (any one) 4 Int — 
Sleight of Hand 4 Dex –1 
Disguise 4 Cha —  
 
Feat: If Dexterity is 13 or higher, Dodge; if Dexterity is 12 or 
lower, Improved Initiative instead. 
Spells Known: 0 level—detect magic, ghost sound, light, read magic. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Three torches. Case with 10 crossbow bolts. 
Lute (common). Spell component pouch. 
Gold: 2d4 gp. 
 
CLERIC 
The handiwork of the gods is everywhere—in places of natural 
beauty, in mighty crusades, in soaring temples, and in the hearts of 
worshipers. Like people, gods run the gamut from benevolent to 
malicious, reserved to intrusive, simple to inscrutable. The gods, 
however, work mostly through intermediaries—their clerics. Good 
clerics heal, protect, and avenge. Evil clerics pillage, destroy, and 
sabotage. A cleric uses the power of his god to make his god’s will 
manifest. And if a cleric uses his god’s power to improve his own lot, 
that’s to be expected, too. 
Adventures: Ideally, a cleric’s adventures support his god’s 
causes, at least in a general way. A good cleric, for example, helps 
those in need. If, through noble acts, he can improve the reputation 
to his god or temple, that’s even better. An evil cleric seeks to 
increase his own power and that of his deity, so that others will 
respect and fear both. 
Clerics sometimes receive orders, or at least suggestions, from 
their ecclesiastical superiors, directing them to undertake missions 
for the church. The clerics and their companions are compensated 
fairly for these missions, and the church may be especially generous 
with the casting of needed spells or divine magic items as payment. 
Of course, clerics are people, too, and they may have any or all the 
more common motivations for adventuring. 
Characteristics: Clerics are masters of divine magic, which is 
especially good at healing. Even an inexperienced cleric can bring 
people back from the brink of death, and an experienced cleric can 
bring back people who have crossed over that brink. 
As channelers of divine energy, clerics can affect undead crea-
tures. A good cleric can turn away or even destroy undead; an evil 
cleric can bring undead under his control. 
Clerics have some combat training. They can use simple weapons, 
and they are trained in the use of armor, since armor does not 
interfere with divine spells the way it does with arcane spells. 
Alignment: Like the gods they serve, clerics can be of any 
alignment. Because people more readily worship good deities than 
neutral or evil ones, there are more good than evil clerics. Clerics 
also tend toward law instead of chaos, since lawful religions tend to 
be more structured and better able to recruit and train clerics than 
chaotic ones. 
Typically, a cleric is the same alignment as his deity, though some 
clerics are one step away from their respective deities in alignment. 
For example, most clerics of Heironeous, the god of valor (who is 
lawful good) are lawful good, but some are lawful neutral or neutral 
good. Additionally, a cleric may not be neutral (that is, neutral on 
both the good–evil axis and the lawful–chaotic axis) unless his deity 
is neutral. 
Religion: Every reasonably well-known deity has clerics devoted 
to him or her, so clerics can be of any religion. The deity most 
common worshiped by human clerics in civilized lands is Pelor (god 
of the sun). The majority of nonhuman clerics are devoted to the 
chief god of the appropriate racial pantheon. Most clerics are 
officially ordained members of religious organizations, commonly 
called churches. Each has sworn to uphold the ideals of his church. 
Some clerics devote themselves not to a god but to a cause or a 
source of divine power. These characters wield magic the way clerics 
devoted to individual gods do, but they are not associated with any 
religious institution or any particular practice of worship. A cleric 
devoted to good and law, for example, may be on friendly terms with 
the clerics of lawful and good deities and may extol the virtues of a 
good and lawful life, but he is not a functionary in a church 
hierarchy. 
Background: Most clerics join their churches as young adults, 
though some are devoted to a god’s service from a young age, and a 
few feel the call later in life. While some clerics are tightly bound to 
their churches’ activities on a daily basis, others have more freedom 
to conduct their lives as they please, as long as they do so in 
accordance with their gods’ wishes. 
Clerics of a given religion are all supposed to get along, though 
schisms within a church are often more bitter than conflicts 
between religions. Clerics who share some basic ideals, such as 
goodness or lawfulness, may find common cause with each other 
and see themselves as part of an order or body that supersedes any 
given religion. Clerics of opposed goals, however, are sworn ene-
mies. In civilized lands, open warfare between religions occurs only 
during civil wars and similar social upheavals, but vicious 
politicking between opposed churches is common. 
Races: All the common races are represented in this class, since 
the need for religion and divine magic is universal. The clerics of 
most races, however, are too focused on their religious duties to 
undertake an adventurer’s life. Crusading, adventuring clerics most 
often come from the human and dwarf races. 
Among the savage humanoids, clerics are less common. The 
exception is troglodytes, who take well to divine magic and are often 
led by priests, who make a practice of sacrificing and devouring 
captives. 
Other Classes: In an adventuring party, the cleric is everybody’s 
friend and often the glue that holds the party together. As the one 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 