CHAPTER SIX

QUIPMENT

an enemy’s flesh. It funs on alcohol (pure, ideally,
although any hard liquor will do in a pinch), and must
be started (1 combat round and a Dex check, DC 20)
before it can be used effectively in combat. One gal-
lon of alcohol will power the saw for one hour.

7 Cost: 30 gp. Weight: 6, lbs. Damage:

Most of the best munchkin equipment is Slashing, 1d10. Critical: 18-20/3.

either already official (gotta love that Chainsaw, ore: The same as above,
throwable flask of holy water), or mag- only used in one hand and not started, and
ical (which will put them in the therefore doing only 1d6 damage.
Munchkin Master’s Guide), or both Requires no fuel in this
(Bag of Holding! Bag of Holding!). mode.
So this will be a short chapter, with
just a few little things you don’t want
to leave home without:

WEAPONS

The better to maim
with!

  
   
 

 

 
 
      
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

This chapter is all closed content, except for
the words in this box and any words in italic type
— but not bold italic! — which are open content.

   

 

 

   
    
   
    
  
   
   
 
    
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   

Polearm, Swiss
Army: It’s not the
most elegant weapon
in the world, but you
are guaranteed to
have the polearm

you need. It con-
tains one of

Boots, Butt-Kicking: every type of
These metal boots have polearm
long metal spikes pro- found in the
truding from the toes. PHB; chang-

ing from one
to another is a
full-round

They allow the wearer to
deliver a kick attack,
doing 1d4 damage on a

successful hit. In all other action.
respects, they behave as normal Cost:
leather boots 500 gp.
Cost: 15 gp. Weight: 5 lbs. Weight: 10
Damage: Piercing, 1d4. Critical: lbs. (Those

Swiss... how do
they do it?) Damage and criti-
cal as per the polearm in use.
Pa Rock, Huge: The weapon of
Vere ch choice for boulder warriors. (Ahem.)
s sl 3 Cost: Free. Weight: 150 lbs. Dam-
STUDER en age: 248 per 10 ft. fallen or hurled. Critical: 20/2.
rack... Slug-Thrower: A hand catapult loaded with
= : your slimy garden friends. Treat as a repeating cross-
TEV SAMO TETELSEMME bow, but instead of doing damage, the slugs distract
all humanoids (except orcs and half-orcs) they hit:

adds +3 to DC for any task requiring concentration,
and an additional +1 for each additional slug. Double

Bow, Ribboned: This elven weapon acts as a__ the penalty for elves and females; triple it for elvish
normal longbow when used as a weapon. It can also females; and double it again if you can get the slug
be twirled, however, distracting any opponent firing down the front of her armor (requiring a critical hit)
missiles at the elf's party (-2 to hit). Blind opponents Cost: 250 gp. Weight 16 lbs. Damage: Special.
are not affected by this secondary power. Critical: 19-20/special effect; see above.

Cost: 100 gp. Other statistics as for a regular Slugs: Cost: 1 cp, or look under a rock. Weight:
longbow. 20 to a pound.

Chainsaw, gnome: This terrible two-handed
weapon uses a clockwork engine to literally tear apart

20/x2.

 
