  

This entire chapter is Open Content, except
for spell titles and the words “munchkin,” “dice,”

and “the,” which are Product Identity.

 

No treatise on the fine art of munchkinry
(munchkinship? munchkination?) would be complete
without a discussion of the ways a magical munchkin
may toast his foes . . . from a safe distance. Luckily,
there any many satisfyingly destructive spells already
in the d20 rules, and there is no need to repeat them
here. In general, a munchkin spell is one which either
(a) allows the player to roll bucketloads of dice for
damage, or (b) allows the character to sidestep nasty
negative effects. If the spell is new, so much the better
... it means the DM hasn’t already figured out a way
to defeat it.

This chapter, then, presents a collection of spells
designed for the most gleefully munchkin of players
and DMs. Enjoy. Destroy!

THE SPELLS

The spells follow an easily understood format
that should be old hat to anyone who has ever come
within about 30 feet of a d20 rulebook. So, without
further ado . . .

AIDE
Conjuration (Summoning)
Level: Clr 2
Components: V, S, DF
Casting Time: | action
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft/2 levels)
Effect: One summoned creature
Duration: One round/level (D)
Saving Throw: None
Spell Resistance: No

Aide summons an assistant to help fight for the
caster . . . or, more specifically, to be there to soak up
damage. The summoned aide has 1d8 hit points, and
any damage suffered by the caster first comes from the
aide’s hit points instead. The caster gains a +1 morale
bonus to attack rolls and fear effects as long as he has
his aide there to back him up.

ALTER _OTHER_

Transmutation

Level: Wiz 2

Components: V, S

Casting Time: | action

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft/level)

Rane

Target: Any one ugly creature

Duration: 10 minutes/level or until midnight,
whichever comes first

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, you would think, but

100000 . . .)

This spell takes a hideous creature within range
and reshapes its features so it is slightly less hideous.
It cannot perform extensive changes — no making a
4°6”, 300-Ib. person into a fashion model — but it can
remove unsightly blemishes, hide inappropriate facial
hair, and even smooth out a hunched back or untwist a
club foot. It is very popular with young wizards who
have delayed too long in finding a date for the Wiz-
ards’ Ball, and are now stuck with whoever they can
find lounging in a gutter between their tower and the
ballroom.

Yes, this spell can mask odors of all sorts . . . at
least those which are present when the spell is cast.
Wizards are advised to watch the diet of the spell
recipient if there is any worry.

The Munchkin

Clerical Domain

No book of d20 player rules would be com-
plete without a new clerical domain. It should be
noted that this clerical domain is not currently
allowed by any deities. This is to allow you, the
creative player, the opportunity to help shape your
campaign world — in this case, by convincing your
DM that your deity would naturally have access
to this domain. To this end, you might change the
name of this domain to “Self-Defense,” “Neces-
sary Roughness,” or another innocuous-sounding
term. We'll never tell.

Granted Power: +1 to everything, all the
time, whenever you could possibly find it useful.
Is that simple, or what?

Munchkin Domain Spells
1 Fireball. BOOM!!!

Lightning Bolt. ZARK!!!

Flame Strike. Eat fiery death, infidel!!!

Power Word: Kill. Die!!!

Finger of Death. I said, DIE!!!

Limited Wish. See, it says it’s Limited.

This is game balance, kids.

Wish. And here’s its big brother!

Miracle. As if you really need one . . .

but it never hurts to have it.

9 Magic Missile. Oops . . . how’d we

forget this one earlier

 

ANEW

won

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

   

 

 
