When this spell is cast, the bard or wizard touch-
es a creature, who immediately assumes all the physi-
cal characteristics of a clown: painted face, big floppy
shoes, red nose, and so on. This spell does not convey
any of the other typical abi of clowns, such as a
seltzer bottle attack, the ability to.cram into any mode
of conveyance, or the potent fear effect of the true
clown.

 

 

If a Critical Failure means you
only do normal damage this

round...
... you might be a Munchkin.

CON TRIP
Transmutation

Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Wiz 0
Components: V, S

 

Casting Time: | action
Range: Personal and touch
‘Target: You and the rest of your party
Duration: Instantaneous
Saving Throw: None
Spell Resistance: No
This potent spell is a variant of teleport which
sends your group to the nearest large gathering of
adventurers; you have no control over your destination
(but will arrive safely). A particularly nasty side effect
of this spell is that when you arrive, you will appear as
though you had traveled the entire distance; this fre-
quently results in poor grooming and hygiene, lack of
sleep, and other deleterious effects. You are also
afflicted with a strange compulsion to buy, at higher
prices, goods readily available in your home town.
On the up side, you'll have a great time.

CURE INSIGNIFICANT WOUNDS
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Brd 0, Clr 0
Components: V, S
Casting Time: | action
Range: Personal or touch
Target: You or creature touched
Duration: Instantaneous
Saving Throw: None
Spell Resistance: No
Now you can fix that paper cut, you big baby.

DETECT BEST TREASURE

Universal

Level: Brd 1, Wiz |

Components: V, S

Casting Time: 1 action

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft/level)

Area: Quarter-circle emanating from you to the
extreme of the range

 

 

 

Duration: Concentration, up to | minute/level (D)

 

Spell Resistance: No

This one isn’t too hard; it points out the best treas-
ure in a recently cleared monster lair. Now it’s up to
you to keep everyone else away from it. (This is where
those thief levels come in really handy . . .)

DORKYISION

Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Brd 3, Wiz 3

Components: V, S, M, F

Casting Time: | action

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft/2 levels)
Target: One creature

Duration: 10 minutes/level

Saving Throw: Will negates

Spell Resistance: Yes

This potent spell has several nasty effects.

1) It forces the victim to focus his attention on the
single most unattainable person at a social gathering,
to the exclusion of all others, even those who might
find him cute.

2) It allows the examination of minutiae, with an
eye toward criticizing any and all mistakes found.

3) It shows you rules (and footnotes to rules!)
which cannot otherwise be found in the complete col-
lection of resources for your favorite RPG.

Material Component: A good pint of ale.

Arcane Focus: A small lead figurine and a
scratched lens.

HALF-ACID ARROW
Conjuration (Creation) [Acid]
Level: Wiz |
Components: V, S, M, F
Casting Time: | action
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ftlevel)
Effect: One arrow of acid
Duration: Instantaneous
Saving Throw: None
Spell Resistance: Yes

This spell conjures an arrow which has a 50%
chance to be made of acid. You must succeed at a
ranged touch attack for this arrow to strike its target. If
the arrow is made of acid, apply damage as per the
acid arrow spell. If it is not, apply damage as per a
standard arrow fired from a short bow.

Material Component: Powdered rhubarb.

Focus: A dart.

 

 

 

SPELLS a :
