 

Spells In
Modern d20 Games

Some purists would argue that there is no
place for spelicasting in modern-era games, that
it destroys the atmosphere to have your superspy
or brainy scientist solve problems with magic
instead of nifty gadgets or raw intellect.

Balderdash, say we.

To illustrate, let’s take a perfectly good fan-
tasy spell and see how we can translate it to mod-
ern terms:

“Death spell! Cool! Takes 3 rounds to cast.”

BLAM!! BLAM!! BLAM!!

“Hey, it works!”

 

 

 

blind. Blind creatures are totally unable to see the sub-
ject of the spell for its duration. When the spell
expires, they are unable to see him normally.

Arcane material component: A mole’s whisker or
a bat’s wing.

INVISIBILITY TO THE BLOND

Enchantment (Charm)

Level: Brd 1, Wiz 1

Components: V, S, M

Casting Time: | action

Ran; ersonal or touch

Target: You or a creature or object weighing no more
than 100 Ibevel

Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)

Saving Throw: None or Will negates (harmless,
object)

Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless, object)

As invisibility to the blind, except that the subject
of the spell cannot be seen by any person or creature
with blond hair or fur, whether natural or dyed. (Note
that dyed blonds are at -4 on their rolls to detect the
invisible person, creature, or thing. They brought it on
themselves.) The verbal component is a simple decla-
ration: “Hey, I’m invisible!”

Arcane material component: Hydrogen peroxide.

KANT TRIP

Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]

Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Wiz 0

Components: V, S, M

Casting Time: 1 action

Range: Personal or touch

Target: You or creature touched

Duration: 1d4 hours

Saving Throw: None or Will negates (creature)
Spell Resistance: No or yes (creature)

This spell causes bject to fall into a
delirious state, during which he thinks he is an
18th-century German philosopher . . . and
explains this anyone who will listen, at
length, disrupting sleep and any
attempts to keep him quiet short of a
silence spell.

  

  

 
   

Material component: A small piece of mush-
room.

L33T
Illusion (Glamer)
Level: Clr 3
Components: V, S, DF
Casting Time: | action
Range: Touch
‘Target: One piece of writing or inscription
Duration: One week/level (D)
Saving Throw: None
Spell Resistance: Yes

‘Acleric who casts this spell turns a single page of
writing or a single inscription into a meaningless jum-
ble of letters, numbers, and symbols. It does not actu-
ally encode the text, and there are rumors of certain
sages who can decipher /33¢ without needing to dispel
the magic. Certainly, such men would be wise indeed.

MAIZE

Conjuration (Creation)

Level: Wiz 7

Components: V, S

Casting Time: | action

Range: Close (25 ft. + 2 ft/level)
Target: One creature

Duration: 10 minutes

Saving Throw: None

Spell Resistance: No

‘You conjure up an extradimensional labyrinth of
corn plants, and the subject vanishes into it. The maize
disappears after 10 minutes, forcing the subject to
leave. On leaving the maize, the subject reappears in
the spot it had occupied when the maize spell was cast,
appearing nearby if this spot is now filled with a solid
object.

Spells and abilities that move a creature within a
plane do not help a creature escape a maize spell,
although some plant-affecting spells may (DM’s
option). Farmers are not affected by this spell.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

  
