Player’s Handbook
The changes throughout the book range from very minor to quite
substantial.
RACES
The standard races underwent some revision. Highlights include:
Dwarves don’t have their speed reduced from Medium or
Heavy armor or loads. They gain weapon familiarity with dwarven
waraxes and urgoshes.
Gnomes gain weapon familiarity with gnome hooked hammers
and now favor the Bard class.
Half-elves gain additional racial skill bonuses to Diplomacy and
Gather Information.
CLASSES
Almost all of the classes underwent some degree of change in the
revision. Changes include:
The levels at which barbarians gain many of their abilities
changed.
Bards get more skill points. In addition, many of the spells on
the bard’s spell list changed, some added, others deleted, and a
number changed level. They gain the ability to make small changes
to their spells known.
Clerics changes include clarification of their alignment aura
and mass versions of cure and inflict spells that can be cast sponta-
neously.
Druids’ animal companions advance now. Animal Empathy
became a class feature.
Fighters experienced the least change, but a number of their
feats were revised.
Monks’ flurry of blows works attack bonus advances differently.
They became more diverse by having options for bonus feats
instead of every monk getting the same bonus feat at set levels.
Some class abilities, such as ki strike, changed.
Paladins smite more often at higher levels. They now summon
their mounts instead of having them always around.
Rangers have a d8 for their Hit Die, more skill points, and the
Animal Empathy became a class feature. Their animal companions,
favored enemies, and other class features underwent substantial
revision.
Sorcerers gain the ability to make small changes to their spells
known. Several familiar bonuses changed.
Wizard school specialization works differently. Several familiar
bonuses changed.
SKILLS
Skills function much as they always have. The amount of time
using a skill takes and the ability to retry a task are clearly quanti-
fied. Synergy between skills expanded. Some skills, such as Per-
form and Ride changed in specialization. Other narrow, niche
skills such as Innuendo and Intuit Direction folded into broader
skills such as Bluff and Survival. A new skill, Knowledge
(dungeoneering), appears.
Some classes, such as the Bard, gained additional skill points.
The manner in which creatures gain skills changed to resemble
the way in which characters gain skills. For many monsters, this
generally resulted in more skill points.
4
Old Skill Name New Skill Name Folded Into Notes
Alchemy Craft (alchemy) n/a Requires 1 spellcaster level to make alchemical items
Animal Empathy [wild empathy] n/a Not a skill; class feature of druid, ranger
Innuendo n/a Bluff
Intuit Direction n/a Survival Automatic with 5 ranks of Survival
Perform (type, type, type) Perform (category) n/a Perform works like Craft or Profession
Read Lips n/a Spot
Ride (mount) Ride n/a Doesn’t indicate a particular type of mount
Pick Pocket Sleight of Hand n/a
Scry n/a n/a Spells now require Will saves
Wilderness Lore Survival n/a