We’ve provided tougher versions of standard monsters. For
instance, in addition to the mummy, nightmare, and wraith, you’ll
find the mummy lord, cauchemare, and dread wraith.
Some creatures, such as the pit fiend, also have round-by-round
tactics as an aid to the DM.
The creatures that have the greatest potential as player 
characters have detailed entries on making PCs based on them.
Other monster suitable as player characters or cohorts have level
adjustments given.
BEHIND THE CURTAIN:
DAMAGE REDUCTION
The damage reduction system changed significantly in the revised
core rulebooks. The obvious change is in the new variety of meth-
ods to bypass a creature’s damage reduction: special materials,
magic or aligned weapons, and types of weapons (slashing or
bludgeoning) can all be the key to successfully getting past damage
reduction.
The less obvious change is that it’s generally easier to break
through a creature’s damage reduction even without the proper
key. Most monsters subtract 5, 10, or 15 points of damage from
most attacks, where prior to the revision this number might be as
high as 40. A number like 40 tells players, “don’t even try it if you
don’t have the right weapon.” A number like 15 sends the message,
“You can try, but it’s going to be a lot harder.”
This booklet includes revised damage reduction entries for
every monster in Deities and Demigods, Epic Level Handbook, Fiend
Folio, Manual of the Planes , and Monster Manual II. If you’re convert-
ing other monsters that don’t appear in those books, follow these
general guidelines:
• Make the damage reduction amount (the number before the
slash) 5, 10, or 15. As a general rule, use 5 for weaker monsters, up
to CR 4 or 5. Use 15 for strong monsters, CR 13 or higher. Use 10
for everything in between.
• Special Materials: If a monster had damage reduction bypassed
by silver before, keep it silver unless a different material is more
appropriate. Also use silver for baatezu devils, guardinals, and a
selection of other creatures from the outer planes, particularly the
lawful plane of the Nine Hells of Baator. In a few cases, you might
combine this with good or evil (see Combinations, below). Use
adamantine to bypass damage reduction in cases where a creature’s
damage reduction is almost like hardness: for most constructs,
creatures whose bodies are made of inorganic material, and for
spell effects like iron body and stoneskin. Use cold iron for fey (often,
even when they did not have damage reduction before), for the
fey-like eladrins, for tanar’ri demons, and select other creatures
from the outer planes, particularly the chaotic planes. It’s not a
good idea to create new special materials except in unique circum-
stances: most adventurers have no reason to carry mithral
weapons, for example.
• Weapon Types: If a monster took half damage from certain
weapon types, replace this with damage reduction 5/other weapon
types. For example, skeletons took half damage from slashing and
piercing weapons; now they have damage reduction 5/bludgeon-
ing. Rarely use weapon types as a bypass for damage reduction.
• Alignment: Allow aligned weapons to bypass the damage reduc-
tion of outsiders of the opposite alignment. Demons and devils
have damage reduction #/good, celestials have damage reduction
#/evil, slaadi have damage reduction #/lawful, and inevitables
(despite being constructs) have damage reduction #/chaotic. Gen-
erally, fiends and celestials associate more strongly with evil and
good, respectively, than with law and chaos. The differences
between lawful and chaotic fiends and celestials showcase in their
racial vulnerabilities to special materials rather than aligned
weapons (see Combinations, below).
• Magic and Epic: If nothing else fits, allow magic weapons to
bypass a creature’s damage reduction. For monsters at very high
CRs (minimum 20), consider using epic weapons instead.
• Combinations: You can use combinations of factors to distin-
guish monsters from each other based on CR and overall power.
Many outsiders have damage reduction that combines special
materials and alignments. For example, very weak tanar’ri demons
have easy-to-bypass damage reduction: a good weapon or a cold
iron weapon strikes unhindered. Moderately powerful tanar’ri ben-
efit from damage reduction that is somewhat more difficult to
bypass: you need a good weapon; a cold iron weapon won’t do. The
most powerful tanar’ri have damage reduction that is even more
difficult to bypass: you need a weapon that is both cold iron and
good. As a rule of thumb, use “or” combinations for monsters of CR
3 or lower, and use “and” combinations for monsters of CR 16 or
higher.
Also consider combinations of magic with either special materi-
als or weapon types. A lich’s skeletal body is vulnerable to bludg-
eoning weapons, like a skeleton’s, but only if they are magic. A
night hag is vulnerable to cold iron weapons, but only magic ones.
In general, requiring two conditions (“and” combinations) makes a
monster’s damage reduction more difficult to bypass, and is most
appropriate for powerful monsters.
8