 
   
   
   
 

This is the Dunceons & Dracons* Roleplaying Game, the game
that defines the genre and has set the standard for fantasy role-
playing for more than 30 years.
Specifically, this is the Dungeon Master's Guide, This book con-

tains information that every.Dungeon Master (DM) needs to set,
\up.adventures, narrate the action, run the monsters, and referee,
ithe Dunctons &Dracons game. This book, the Player's Handbook)
,and_the. Monster Manual comprise.the core rules for the D&D*)
game.

“THE DUNGEON MASTER

We've distilled our knowledge of the D&D® game into the mate-
rial that follows. Whether you need to know how to design an
jadventure, a campaign, or an entire game world, the material in.
this book can, and will, help you.
|_Youlre.a member ofa select group, Truly, not everyone has the. cre]
jativity and the dedication to be a DM. Dungeon Mastering (DMing),
can be challenging, but it's not a chore, You're the lucky one out of
your entire circle of friends who play the game. The real fun is in
your hands. As you flip through the Monster Manual or look at pub-
lished adventures on a store shelf, you get to decide what the player
characters (PCs) take on next. You get to build a whole world, as well
as design and play all irs nonplayer characters (NPCs),

Ir's good to be the DM.

__The DM defines the game. A good DM results in. a good game.
Since you control the pacing, and the types of adventures and
encounters, the whole tenor of the game is in your hands. Ir’s fun,
but it's a big responsibility. If you're the sort of person. who likes to
provide the fun for your friends, or to come up with new ideas,
then you're an ideal candidate for DM,

Once your group has a Dungeon Master, however, that doesn't
mean that you cant switch around, Some DMs like to take a rurn,
at being.a player, and many players eventually want.to.try their
hand.at DMing.

 

 

WHY A REVISION?

The new Dunctons & Dracons game debuted in 2000. in the three years
since the d20 Game System energized the roleplaying game industry,
we've gathered tons of data on how the game is being played, We
consider D&D to be a living game that constantly evolves as it is
played. Using the gathered feedback, we've retooled the game from the
ground up and incorporated everyone’s suggestions to improve the
game and this product.

If this is your first experience with D&D, we welcome you to a wonder-
ful world of adventure and imagination. if you played the prior version of
this book, rest assured that this revision is a testament to our dedication
to continuous product improvement and innovation. We've updated
errata, clarified rules, polished the presentation, and made the game
better than it was. This is an upgrade of the d20 System, not a new edition
of the game. This revision is compatible with existing products, and these
products can be used with the revision with only minor adjustments.

What's new in the revised Dungeon Master's Guide? The entire book has
been polished and refined, all in response to your feedback and to reflect
the way the game is actually being played, We've revised the encounter
tables and magic item creation rules, We've expanded the movement
rules, increased the number of prestige classes, added dozens of new
magic items and magic item special abilities, and provided plenty of tools
to help promote the three-dimensional experience.

Take a look, play the game. We think you'll like how everything turned

  

Introduction

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
  

Noone expects you.to read this book cover to cover. It's nota,

novel. Instead, we arranged this book into topics that you can refer,
sto when you need them. Plus, an extended glossary at the back of
|the book provides quick reference to DM-related topics.

Based on those portions of the game that you control, you'll find
chapters thar deal with running the game, adjudicating play, writ.
ing adventures, building a campaign, awarding experience, and ,

finding or creating the right magic items to. stock your dungeons.
Refer to the table of contents and the index to locate the specific}
topic you need at any given time.

PLAYING ON THE BATTLE GRID }
‘The D&D game assumes the use of miniature figures, and the;
tules are written from that perspective. This book contains bartle

grid and other tools to help you visualize the action.

The poster-sized sheet in the back of the book has a t-inch grid
jon.one side, and a collection of rooms that can be used to repre-.,
{sent areas in a dungeon on the other side.

The last 12 pages of this book (just ahead of the index) presenta
variety of visual aids that you can use to set up.and play out
encounters and adventures on the grid:

—Six pages of diagrams that show the squares contained
within areas of different sizes and shapes, and graphic depictions
of space and reach for creatures of varying sizes.

—Six pages of illustrations that represent various dungeon,
features, sized to fitthe 1-inch grid, that you can photocopy,.cut |
out, and place on.the grid—enabling players to.actually see.
what lies before their characters as they make their way through |
the dungeon.

 

‘The power of creating worlds, controlling deities and dragons, and
leading entire nations is in your hands. You are the master of the
game—the rules, the setting, the action, and ultimately, the fun.
This is a great deal of power, and you must use it wisely. This book
shows you how.

 

THE PURPOSE OF SIDEBARS

You'll see blocks of text that look like this one frequently throughout
this book, The information in these sidebars is not part of the rules per
se, but you'll find them useful and interesting in their own right. Most
sidebars in this book serve either to introduce rules variants or to give
you a glimpse “behind the curtain" into how some aspect of the D&D
game was created.

Variant: To give you an idea of some of the ways in which you can
alter the D&D rules for your own campaign, some sidebars suggest
variants that you can adopt or modify to suit your game.

The basic rules presented in this book—that is, everything not iden-
tified as a variant—apply to the baseline D&D campaign. If you are
playing in an RPGA® Network event, that event uses the basic rules in
this book. Establishing a standard set of rules makes a worldwide
gaming network possible,

Behind the Curtain: Some sidebars provide a further explanation of
why the rules are the way they are—a look “behind the curtain” into
how the game's designers make decisions about the rules. If you're the
sort of DM who likes to tinker with the rules of the D&D game, these
sidebars offer some advice and inspiration as you customize the game
for yourself and your players.

 
