    
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 

      

game. If the
Il get the
run

n Your tole as Dungeon Master, youre the focus of the
game's fun it Will be to your credit/If it's a failure, yo
: e, whether it’s deserved or not. Don't worry, though:

But dont

   

r

  

D&D* game is not as hard as it may seem at first.
tell the players that!

aut WHATIS. A DM?
Dingeon Mastering involves\writing, teaching, actings referee:
ingyarbitrating, and facilitating. Destribed below are the diffe
duties of the DM Youll find that you lik ot
Asin any hobby, foctis on what you enjoy

& that all the other duties are also.importa

PROVIDING ADVENTURES
You primary tole in the game is to present adventures in: which
the other players can roleplay their characters, To accomplish
this, yotheed to spend time outside the game sessions them-
selves, preparing. This is true whether you Write your own advens
tures or use prepared adventures that you have purchased

   
   
 

 

ne more th
¢ Most, but rem:

   

 

Writing Adventures
Creating adventures kes @ great deal of time, Many DMs find
that they spend more-time getting ready for.the game than they
do at the table actually playing, These same DMs often find thts
creation time to be the most fun and rewarding part of being a
Dungeon Mastet. Making up interesting characters, settings
plots, and challenges to present before your friends can be a great
creative outlet
Writing good adventures is so important that it receives its
own chapter in this book: See Ghapter 3: Writing an Adventure.

 

 

hq Purob iventures
Many piblished adventures are available for you to pur-
chase if you dont want to write one of your own, or if you
just want t change of pace. In a published adve youll
get a pregenerated scenatio'Wwith all the maps, NPCs, mon:
sters, and treasures youmneed, and an adventure plot
designed to make the most of them! Sometimes, when
you use # published adventure, you'll see that ir presents
challenges you would have never thought of on your
own.

Remember, however, that you're the one who has to
tun the adventure: Anything you want-te;change, you
can. In fact, you will often find you heed to. make at least
small’changes to-firthe advenruredinto your ongoing

campaign and to gét your players im the action. You
can have a great deal of fun, replacing the villain of an
adventure with one the players have already heard of
in your eampaign, or changing the background of the
adventure so thar itinvolves your players’ characters
in ways that thé modules designér never could have
possibly imagined

EACHING THE GAME

Somietimes it's going to be your responsibility to
reach newcomers (6 the game how to play, This isnt
4 butden, bur a wonderful opportunity: Teaching
other people how to play provides you with new play:
ers and allows you to set them on the path to becoming
top-notch toleplayers. {ts easier to learn to play with
someone who already knows the game. Those who

ns a fun game

ased

 

ure,

 

 

 

tot

 

INO YitldVHD

are taught bya good teacher whe

 

   

os
