are more likely to join in the hobby for the long haul Use this _finalarbiter of the rules within the game. Good players will always)

 

 

opportunity to encourage new players to become the sort of recognize thar you have ultimate authority over the game mechan-|
people you want to game with, ics, even superseding something in a rulebook. Good DMs know.
Here are a few pointers on teaching the game. not to change or overturn a published rule without a good, logical |
Read the Player's Handbook and know the character creation! _{justification so that the players don't rebel (more on that later).
tules so you can help new players build characters. Have each of} | To carry out this responsibility, you need to know the rules.
the newcomers tell you what sort of character he or she wantsto}. {You're not required to memorize the rulebooks, bur you should
jplay.and then show them how they.can create those heroeswith} have a clear idea of what's in them, so that when a situation comes

[the D&D rules. If they dont know what to play, show them the} _up that requires a ruling, you know where to reference the proper |
player character races and classes.in the Player's Handbook, briefly|. _,rule in the book.

idescribe each, and let them choose the one that appeals to them | Often a situation will arise that isn't explicitly covered by the
ithe most. Another option is.to keep a few simple characters rules. In such a situation, you need to provide guidance as to haw
(such as a 1st-level fighter or rogue) around for newcomers. it should be resolved. When you come upon.a situation thar the
Advance those characters in level as the party advances. and rules don't seem to cover, consider the following courses of action.
you'll have “old friends" who adventure with the party when * Look to any_similar situation that is covered in.a rulebook. Try |
newcomers play them. to extrapolate from what you see presented there and apply.it to
Once the PCs are created, dont worry about teaching the play- ,—the current circumstance.

yers.all the rules ahead of time. All they truly need to know arethe| _{+_ If you have to make something up, stick with it for the rest of
{basics that apply ro understanding their characters (how spells). _| _ the campaign, (This is called a house.rule.) Consistency keeps.
jwork, what AC means, how to use skills, and so forth), and they, _|__ players satisfied and gives them the feeling that they adventure
can pick up most of this information as they go along. Remember | in a stable, predictable universe and_not in some random.
the most basic rule: To attack, make a saving throw, or use a skill, nonsensical place subject only to. the DM's whims.

roll a d20 and hope for a high number, + When in doubt, remember this handy little rule: Favorable

As long as you know the rules, the players need be concerned conditions add +2 to any.d20 roll, and unfavorable conditions

only with their characters and how they react to what happens to penalize the roll by ~2. You'll be surprised how often this "DM's
them in the game. Have players tell you what they want their char- best friend” will solve problems.
\acters to do, and translate that into game terms for them. Teach If you come upon an apparent contradiction in the rules, con-
jthem how the rules work when they need to learn them, on a case- jsider these factors when adjudicating. }
iby-case basis. For example, if the player of a wizard wants to cast a * Arule found in a rulebook overrules one found ina published |
spell. or the player of a fighter wants.to attack, the player tells you adventure, unless the rule presented in the published adven-,
, what the character is attempting. Then you tell the player which ture deals with something specific and limited tothe adventure |
\modifier or modifiers to add to the roll of ad20,and what happens itself.

asa result, After afew times, the player will know what to do with- Choose the rule that you like the best, then stick with it for the
four asking, rest of the campaign. Consistency is a critical aspect of rules

djudication
PROVIDING THE WORLD adjudicati
Every Dungeon Master is the creator of his or her own campaign, PROPELLING THE GAME EVER FORWARD

  
      
        
 

 

world, Whether you use the Grevnawx® serting (the standard, —_ While all rhe players are responsible for contributing to the game,
D&D campaign setting) oranother published setting forthe D&D] _the onus must ultimately fall upon the DM.to keep the game
game, such as the Foscorren Reatas® Campaign Setting, it's still) moving, maintain player interest, and keep things fun. Remember
your world, i that keeping things moving is always more important than search-
The setting is more than just.a backdrop for adventures, al- ing through rulebooks.to find the exact details on some point or
though it’s that too, The setting is everything in the fictional world spending time in long debates over rules decisions.
except for the PCs.and the adventure plot. A well-designed and Eyen.a well-run game can bog down sometimes. Perhaps the
well-run world seems to go on around the PCs, so thar they feel a players have been at it a while and are growing a little tired of the
part of something, instead of apart from it. Though the PCs are same old thing. Maybe a playing session falls flat for no apparent
powerful and important, they should seem to be residents of some reason. Sometimes this cant be helped—you're only human. In
fantasy world that is ultimately larger than they. are. fact, occasionally you will find it's better to cancel a playing ses-
|..Consistency is the key toa believable fictional world. When the sion or cut it short rather than have a poor experience that may set

,BCs go back into town for supplies, they ought to encounter some back the whole campaign.

\of the same NPCs they saw before, Soon, they'll learn the bar- However, an average playing session.can be rurned into a mem-
keep’s name—and she'll remember theirs as well. Once you have orable one, or a poor session can be spiced up. For example, props
achieved this degree of consistency, however, provide an occa- can bring new. life.to a game. You can make fake parchment from
sional change. Ifthe PCs come back to buy more horses at the sta- normal paper, “aging” it by wetting it slightly with coffee or tea
bles, you could have them discover that the man who ran the place and.then letting it dry ro an uneven yellow. Toss in a few creases or
went back home to the large city over the hills, and now his small rips, and later when the PCs find a map or a message you.can
nephew runs the family business, That sort of change—one that actually hand ir to them. Old coins, tarot cards, a battered book in |
has nothing to do with the PCs directly, but one that they'll a foreign language, and the like all make wonderful handouts to,
notice—makes the players feel.as though they're adventuring in a get players into the spirit of the game. 4

living world as real as themselves, not just a flat backdrop that Another kind of visual aid is artwork. In all D&D game prod-|

{exists only forthem to delve its dungeons, jucts, you'll find wonderful fantasy illustrations. Look through}

|For. much more on running a campaign, see Chapter 5. those_products, or find a book cover or some.other art source to}

; = provide you with a picture that fits something the PCs will)

ADJU DICATING |_lencounter, Then, when the encounter comes.to.pass, pull out the

When everyone gathers around the table to play the game, youre {picture and say, “This is what you see.” While players’ imagina-

in charge. That doesnt mean you can tell people what to do our-! {tions are fertile, sometimes seeing a depiction of something they

side the boundaries of the game, but it does mean that youre the, encounter in the game—a character, a monster, or a place—
