  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
       

and opponents and meet clearly good helpful NPCs (occasion-
ally). Don't expect PCs to anguish over what to do with prisoners,
or whether it’s right or wrong to invade and wipe out the bugbear
lair. Don't bother too much with money or time spent in town. Do.

(desire to kill monsters and acquire treasure.
Rules and game balance are very important in this style of play.
If some characters have combat ability greater than that of their)

joverpowered characters can handle more of the challenges and
‘thus have more fun. If youlre using this style, be very careful about
adjudicating rules and think long and hard about additions or
changes to the rules before making them.

DEEP-IMMERSION STORYTELLING

¢ Free City of Greyhawk is threatened by political rurmoil. The}
[PCs must.convince the members of the ruling council to resolve}

| their differences, but can only.do so after they have come to terms,
with their own differing outlooks and agendas. This style of gam-|

ing is deep, complex, and challenging. The focus isnt on combat
but on talking, developing in-depth personas, and character inter-
action. A whole game session may pass without a single die roll.
In this style of game, the NPCs should be as complex and richly
detailed as the PCs—although the focus should be on motivation
jand personality, not game statistics. Expect long digressions from
teach player about what his or her character will do, and why.
,Going to a store to buy iron rations and rope can be as important
an encounter as fighting orcs. (And dont expect. the PCs to fight
the orcs at all unless their characters are motivated to do so.) A
(character will sometimes take actions against his player's better
judgment, because “that's whar the character would do." Adven-
\tures in this style of play deal mostly with negotiations, political
maneuverings, and character interaction. Players talk about the
“story” that they are collectively creating.
Rules become less important in this style. Since combatisnit the

focus, game mechanics take a back seat to character development.
Skill modifiers take precedence over combat bonuses, and even|
then the actual numbers often dont mean much, Feel free to!

change rules to fit the player's roleplaying needs. You may even,
want to streamline the combat system so that it takes less time
away from the story.

SOMETHING IN BETWEEN

The style of play in most campaigns is going to fall between the two
extremes just described, There's plenty of action, but there's a story-
Jine and interaction between characters. as well, Players will develop
itheir characters, but they'll be eager to get into a fight. Provide a nice
-mixture of roleplaying encounters and combat encounters, Even in
jadungeon, you can present NPCs that arent meant to be fought but
rather helped out, negotiated with, or just talked to.

OTHER STYLE CONSIDERATIONS

A few other style-related issues are worth your consideration.
Serious versus Humorous; How seriously you take things
sets the standard for how. seriously the players take things. Jokes
and silly remarks can make the game more fun, but. they can also
detract from the action, If you make funny.comments during the
.game, expect that the players will, roo.

Likewise, if you design adventures that are lighthearted, create
| NPCs that are slightly silly, or introduce embarrassing or humor-
Sous situations into the game, realize that it changes the tenor of.
{the game. Lf the king of the land is a talking dog named Muffy or
if the PCs have to find a brassiere of elemental summoning rather
than_a.brazicr.of elemental summoning, don’ expect anyone to take |
the game too seriously.

In such a game, let the BCs face mostly clearly evil monsters

whatever it takes to get.the PCs back into the action as quickly as
possible. Character motivation need be no more developed than al

ifellows, unfair situations may develop in which the players of the|

   

Overall, it’s recommended that you play things straight. Dont
intentionally insert jokes into the game. There'll be enough josh-|
ing around atthe table already to keep the game fun. The in-game
action should remain fairly serious (although an occasional funny,

jmoment is fine).

Naming Conventions; Related to how serious or humorous
ithe game is, character. names should be fairly uniform in style
throughout the group, Although any character name is fine in and
of itself, a group that includes characters named Bob the Fighter.)
Aldorius Killraven of Thistledown, and Runtboy lacks the consis-|
tency to be credible,

Multiple Characters: You need to decide if cach player is.
going to be limited to one character or can have more.than.one,
and whether a player is allowed to actually run more than one,
character at the same time. Generally, it's best if you keep to one
character per player. However, when players are few, you.might

jallow them to run more than one character just to get the group

{size up to at least four characters.

THE BOTTOM LINE

You're in charge. This is. not being in charge as.in telling everyone
what to do. Rather, you get to decide how your player group is
going to play this game, when and where the adventures take
place, and whar happens. That kind of being in.charge.

 

JA DM guides four players through their first adventure, The play-)
ers are playing Tordek (a dwarf fighter), Mialee (an_elf wizard),
Jozan (a human cleric),.and Lidda (a halfling rogue). These four,
adventurers seek the ruins of an abandoned monastery, drawn by,
rumors of a fabulous fire opal, supposedly hidden there by the,
abbot when the place was attacked

After passing through the lifeless aboveground ruins of the mon-
astery, the adventurers find a rubble-strewn staircase leading down.

Tordek: Let's give these upper ruins one more quick look.

DM: [Making some rolls in secret, but knowing there's nothing to find

in the burned-out shell of the monastery.) You dont find anything.
What are you going to do now?

Jozan: Let's go down!

Lidda; We'll light a torch first.

DM: Fine, but I'll need the marching order that you'll be in.

At this point, the players arrange their miniature figures, each repre-

senting one character, in the order in which they will march down the
stairs (and walk down corridors, and enter rooms). Tondek goes first, fol-
lowed by Jozan (with the torch), then Mialee, Lidda brings up the rear, her
player noting that she will be watching behind them occasionally

If the players didn't have miniatures, writing down the marching onder

on a piece of paper would sulfice,

Tordek: Fortunately, the torchlight won't spoil my darkvision—

thar'll help us navigate in the dark down there.

Jozan: Okay, we go down the stairs.

DM: You descend southward, possibly 30 feet laterally, and ar

the end of the stairway you see an open space.

Tordek: 1 enter and look around.

Jozan: I come in behind with the torch.

DM: You are in.a. chamber about 30 feet across to the south and

30 feet. wide cast and west. You see 10-foot-wide passages to the left
and right.as well as straight ahead, each in the center of its respec-|
tive wall, Looking back, you see the stairway by which you entered |
the chamber in the center of the north wall

Lidda: What else do we see?

DM: The floor is rough and damp. The ceiling is supported by!
jarches that probably rise to meet in the center, about 20 feet above
tyou—it'’s hard to tell because of all the webs. Some moldering old

sacks are lying in the southwest.corner, and some rubbish is jum-
