bled in the center of the floor—dirt, old leather. scraps of cloth, DM: The webs burn quickly. As they do, tiny burning husks.of |

 

and some sticks or bones. smaller spiders fall from the ceiling, but nothing the size of the}

After a short discussion and the formation.of a plan, cach player creature thar attacked.
announces an action for hisor her chamicter, Tordel looks down the south Tordek: [On lookout.) What do we see down the passages? 4
passage, Mialee investigates the rubbish in the middle, Jozan looks at the, ___DM: The south tunnel runs straight as far as you can see. The
old sacks, and Lidda looks down the west passage. The players position, —_|west corridor ends in.adoor at about 20 feet.
their figures on a floor plan the DM has sketched out on paper. |) Tordek: Okay, I'l also glance down the east passage

Since noone paid the webs.any.attention, the. DM doesn’t worry. abut, DM: You see the east.corridor goes straight for about 20 feet and.
LSpot checks to see the spider, } then turns a corner to head north.

DM: Okay, As two of you are looking down the passages and), Lidda: Let's check our. that door. (Everyone.aguees.).

Jozan starts looking at the sacks... [The.DM rolls a touch attack for. DM: Okay. You walk down the west passage. The door is a. great. 4
the monstrous spider in the webs He knows a.14 indicates success because heavy thing with a huge ring of corroded bronze in the center,
_hewrote down everyone's AC ahead of time and knotvs Mialee’s AC ts 13.] Tordek: Mialee, your Listen modifier is better than mine. Why.
Mialee, you feel something land on your shoulder—it feels dont you listen at this door? }
hairy and moves toward your neck! Mialee: Okay, move forward to do so, [Rolls.) Lroll a 13..Do 1)

Mialee: Yikes! What is it? hear anything?

Tordek: If hear her call out, I'll rurn around. What do I see?, _|__DM: You heara faint moaning sound—you can‘ really tell what

DM: Wait just a minute, First, Mialee, roll for initiative. | _{itis—that rises and then fades away. The door is hinged on the left.

Mialee: [Rolls.] 1 got a 19! | jand looks like it pulls inward roward you,

DM: [Rolls initiative for the spider, and gets a 9.] Everyone else, | Mialee: I hear moaning on the other side. Let's get ready for.
should roll for initiative as well. Tordek, you heard Mialee gasp,| action! And, by the way, I move to my position toward the back...
and you turn to see a large, hairy spider on her neck. ‘Tordek: (Laughs.] All right, I'll open the door while the elf,

Jozan rolls a 10, Lidda an 8, and Tordek a 4. scrambles to the back of the line,

DM: Mialee, you go first. What do you do? DM: Make ¢ Strength check.

Mialee: I grab it from my shoulder and throw it to the ground, Tordek: [Rolls,} 1 only got.a10. If that’s not good enough,.can I
where I can stomp on it with my boot, try again?

DM: Okay, but your unarmed artack provokes an attack of. DM: That’ not good enough, but if youre.willing to spend more |
\opportunity from the spider, so it bites.as:you grab aris. [He rolls an time on it, you can keep trying. 4
\attack roll for the spider, and gets a 16.) Ugh! Mialee, you feel a sharp ‘Tordek: [To the other players.] Look, we really want.to get through]

prick on your neck. Make a Fortitude saving throw. this door, right? [They.agree, so the player turns back to the DM.) Im,

The players all gasp in fear. Mialce rolls a die and would add her Forti- _willing to spend enough time to take 20 on my roll, With my,
tude modifier, except that it's +0. Strength bonus, that gives me a 22.

Mialee: Fortitude, my worst save! Let's see—15 plus 0 is, well, DM: Ah, easily good enough. After a couple of minutes, Tondek|
115. Is that good enough? forces open the stuck door, Immediately a blast of cold, damp air

DM: You feel okay, But.the bite still delivers 1 point of damage. gusts into the passage where you are, blowing out Jozan’s torch,

Mialee; Ouch. Okay, then I roll a 14 10 grab irand throw it to the Tordek: Do I see anything with my darkvision?
ground, Do I succeed? DM: Beyond the door is achamber with rough swalls, not blocks

DM: Yes. The spider lands on the ground and looks like it's, _of stone like the room behind you. It's 25 feet wide and extends
going to scuttle away, perhaps back up the wall to the webs above. | about 40 feet to the south. A stream spills through the room into a

Jozan: My turn. 1 run up to it and smash it with my mace! Lroll| __ pool, carrying with it a cold, damp breeze, You don't see anything
a natural 20! With my bonus, that's 22.in all |. moving around, but some old barrels and buckets are here.

DM: Good roll! You.can.move that far and attack, so make a roll Jozan: L cast light on.a.rock, since welll never get a torch lit in
to see if thar’s a critical hit. this.wind,

Jozan: [Excitedly rolling again, Js a.15.good enough? DM: Okay, now everyone.can see.

DM: Yep, Roll damage—twice, Add the results together. ‘Tordek: Llook at the ceiling and the floor for any more nasty

Jozan: [Rolls] Sweet! Twelve points altogether once 1 add my surprises.

Strength bonus—which also doubled with the crit! Mialee; I'll look in the barrels and buckets.

DM: That mighty blow smashes the creature to bits. Lidda: Jozan, bring your light over and we'll check out the pool,

Mialee: Cool. Well, now that all the excitement is over, I'm DM: Tordek and Mialee, make Search checks. Lidda and Jozan,
going to search through this refuse on the floor like I said I would. give me Spot checks, since you cant “search” the pool without get-

DM: Okay. First, make another Fort save to see if there are any ting into it, but you can look into the water to spot anything that
lingering effects from that spider bite, might be there, [The players comply and tell the DM their results,

Mialee: Uh-oh, that doesnt sound good . .. [Rolls] ....a17! although the DM knows that there'snothing for Tondek or Mialee to find.}

DM: No problems, then. You feel fine. Looking at the pile of There's nothing alarming about the ceiling and floor, and the
debris, youd guess it's probably refuse ftom the spider—leftovers buckets are empty. The pool has some small white fish that look
of its victims and its own castings, Amid bits of bone and tatters of —_harmless—they dont react atall to your light. The pool looks to be
clothing, you find 19 silver pieces, And make a Search check. 4 to 6 feet deep with a rough and rocky bottom. Jozan, with your

Mialee rolls a 9 and adds her +6 Search modifier for a result of 15 —just result of 17 you see that what at first seemed to be a rock formation |
enough to notice a hidden gem inthe pile! near the center of the pool looks somewhat like a skeleton.

DM: You see something sparkle inside a small skull. Looking Jozan: Cool! Mialee, will you cast your own light spell so I can)
closer, you see it's a gem—a garnet. .toss this rock down into the pool to get a better look at this skele-|
|._Mialee: Grear! I get it.our and put itin my pouch. We can try ton? It might be something interesting. es |
{to appraise it later. You know, I'm getting a little nervous about Mialee: Okay, 1 do.
ithat.web, Jozan: Lross.the rock thar I've cast lightupon into the water, |

Lidda: Good point. Jozan, why not light the webs on fire with {toward the center of the pool.
yourtorch?. | |DM: Yourstone falls to the bortom of the pool, illuminating the

Jozan; Okay. I do. What happens? (Looks at the DM.) j center, The formation is clearly. a Jimed-over skeleton—it must

 
