 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 

        

have been there for many years, Your stone impacts with it, stir-
ring up dirt and muck, and dislodges what.appears to be acylinder
about a foot long. The current quickly begins to carry. it.away. . . .
Lidda: Oh, no! I leap into the water and get it—at least I'll be
able to see down there, Better, in fact, because of my low-light
vision.

DM: Hmmm. Make a Swim check. |
|_Lidda; Uh-oh. I don't have thar skill. Untrained, I use my,
{Strength bonus, right? Ubh...... don't have one of those either.
[Rolls] Hey! I still gor a 17! 4

DM: You guys are rolling great tonight, Lidda, even with a/
spenalty for the weight of the gear youre carrying, you succeed.
You manage to jump in and swim up to the rube just as the current
is going to sweep it our of the room and down the underground
stream. You haye no idea if there would be air to breathe if you
swam down the dark, narrow passage, which seems to be com-
pletely filled with water.

Lidda: Okay, then L try to grab the tube now.

DM: Make an attack roll. }

Lidda rolls high enough to grab the tube. The DM relays this informa:
tion, and Lidda swims up to the surface and climbs out of the pool wth the .
help of the others—all of whom announce that their characters crowd

around her to see what she’s found. The DM describes the sealed tube.

Lidda: I dry off the tube a little, and then open it

DM: Inside is a roll of vellum.

Tordek: Let's get out of this room and back into that entry cham-
-ber where we can light torches again. It's probably not going to be
leasy to read a scroll or whatever with this air current, [The other PCs
jagnee,.and they return to the first room, closing the door behind them.]
|_DM: The rube must have allowed a bit of water to seep in slowly,
jbecause parts of the scroll are smudged and obliterated, but you
{can see what looks like a map of the passages under the monastery.
,You recognize the stairs down and the room with the pool and bar-
rels. The eastern portion of the map is smeared beyond legibility,
but _you see that the south passage runs out of the room you're in
now to a blurred area, and beyond that you see.a large area with
coffinlike shapes drawn along the perimeter.

Tordek: Let's head south and see what the map is leading,
toward. [Everyone agrees. Tondek lights a torch and takes the lead.)

DM: You pass down a long passage of stone blocks with an|
arched ceiling about 15 feet overhead. The passage stretches for,
about 60 feet, then opens into the northern portion of an unlit
chamber that looks to be about $0 feet by 50 feet to those of you
with darkvision or low-light vision, It's completely empty and
seems to be adead end. What.do you do?

Lidda: Does this room look like the one with the coffin shapes
on the map?

_DM: No. It looks more like the blotched area on the map,

Mialee: I bet there's a secret door here. Let's check the south
pwall.

The DM decides to make the Search checks himself, hidden from the
players so that they won't know the results, He knows that they can't find
anything; there is.a secret door 10 feet above the floor, but he doesn't want
them to know that, Finding some holes in the wall requires no roll, so the
DM randomly determines.whe finds them by rolling a d4. He also makes
@ Listen check for the ghouls at the far end of the secret corridor—an 18
means they have heard the party tapping on the walls looking for a
hollow spot.

DM; The wall seems solid. However... Tordek, you noticed
|some strange holes in the wall—square places cut into the stone,
,sach about half.a foot on.a side and about that deep, There are four
jalLrogether. Each pair of holes is 10 feet apart, with one pair about
\3 feet from the floor and the other pair about 6 feet up. You find
|some wooden splinters in one of the holes.

Jozan: Let's look at that map again.
Tordek: While you do that, I'll feel around to find if the holes,
haye any levers or catches or anything.

   
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

DM: [Making some meaningless rolls, knowing there are no levers to
find.) You don’ find anything like that, Tordek.

Mialee: The only thing 1 can think of is that the holes are sock-|
ets for some sort of wooden construction,

Lidda: Sure! How about a ramp or stairs? How high is the. ceil-|
Ling in this place?

DM: Oh, about 25 feet.

Lidda: How about hoisting me up and letting me search up
high?

Jozan: Good idea. Tordek, will you help.me hold her steady? |

Tordek: Sure.

Mialee: While they do thar, I'll keep a lookout to make sure,
nothing sneaks up behind us from the way we came.

DM: Looks clear, Mialee. Lidda’s not heavy, so you guys dont,
have to. make Strength checks to lift her, You do have to make.
them to hold her steady so that she can... What is it youre going
{todo once you're hoisted up, Lidda?

Lidda: Ill scan the stone first to see if markings or some operat:
jing device is evident.

DM: Okay, how about those Strength checks? Tordek, you're
stronger, so Jozan is helping you rather than the other way around.
If the cleric can succeed on a check against DC.10, he'll add +2 to.
Tordek’s attempt.

The check results are good enough. that Tordek.and Jozan_are.able to
hold Lidda steady, so the DM makes a Search check for Lidda, She finds
something.

DM: Lidda, you find some stone projections that seem rather
smooth, as if worn by use.

Lidda: Then I'll see if L can move any of the knobs. Maybe they! i
open a secret door, I'll pull, push, rwist, turn, and slide...

DM: Okay. One of the fist-sized projections moves inward, and,
there's a grinding sound. A 10-foor-by-10-foot section.of the wall.
10 feet above the floor in the center of the south wall, swings
inward and to the right.

Lidda: I'll pull myself up into the doorway, and then I'll see if L
can tse my tools to somehow anchor a rope up here to help the
others climb,

DM: You get up there, and you're looking around for a crack or
something to wedge a spike into,right? Make a Spot check.

The Spot check is actually. to see if Lidda sees the ghouls waiting in the
darkness, but Lidda doesn't know that (although the fact that the DM didn't
ask fora Search check might have tipped off a more experienced player)

Lidda: Oops. rolled a 2,

Now the DM begins rolling attacks for the ghouls. The players ask
what's going on, and why he’s rolling dice, but his silence adds to the ten-
sion and suspense, The ghouls hit Lidda with their paralyzing touch.

DM: Lidda, make a Fortitude save.

Lidda: Oh, no! Why? A trap? [Rolls] Arrgh—a 1. This is where
our luck runs out

DM: [To.the others.) You see a sickly gray arm strike the halfling
as she’s looking around at the floor where she stands, 10 feet above
you, She utters a muffled cry, and then a shadowy form drags her
outof sight. Whar do you do?.

After everything is prepared, and everyone sits down at the table, |
you're on. It's. your show, Here are some points to consider, while,
at the table and before you ever get there, to help the game.run.as|
smoothly as possible.

KNOWING THE PLAYERS |
Normally, but not always, the DM is in charge of inviting players,
to play in his or her game. If this is the case, it's your responsibility
to.know and understand each of these people well enough that

[you can be reasonably sure that they'll all get along, work well
together, and enjoy the sort of game you run.
