A lot of this has to do with playing style, Ultimately, you have to
know the kind of game your players want to. play—and, with play-
ers new to the game or anewly formed group, this knowledge may
take a while to emerge. Recognize that while youre in charge, it's
really everybody's game—and that the players are all here, coming |
back session after session, because they trust that you'll help them.
have a fun and rewarding gaming experience. {

Table Rules 4
,One thing that will help everyone, players and DM alike, roall get)
along is establishing a set of rules—rules that having nothing to
\do.with the actual game bur that govern what happens with the

_people around the table,

Some table rules issues that you'll need to deal with eventually
are discussed below. It's best.to. come up with the answers before
you start a regular campaign. You.can establish these yourself, or

.you.can. work them out with your players.

Nonattending Players: Sometimes a regular player can't show}
jupfor a game session. The others are faced with the question of
iwhat to do with his or her character, You have several choices.)

* Someone else cuns that character for the session (and thus runs |

two characters at once). This is easiest on you, but sometimes the
fill-in player resents the task, or the replaced player is unhappy
with what happened to the character in his or her absence
You run the character as though he or she were an NPC. This
might actually be the best solution, but dont do it if running a
,character and running the game at the same_time is too much
|for you.and hurts the whole session.
The character, like the player, cant be present for this adven-
ture. This solution only works in certain in-game situations, but
if it makes sense for the character to be absent,.that’s a handy
way to take the character out of the action for a. game session.
Ideally, the reason for the character's absence is.one that allows
him or her to jump back in with a minimum of fuss when the
player is available again. (The character may have some other
commitment, or she might fall victim to some minor disease,
for instance.)
The character fades into the background for this session. This is.
probably the least desirable solution, because it strains every-}
one’s suspension of disbelief.
Recognize that players. come and go, Someone will move away, |
another's regular life will become busier, and yet another will
grow tired of the game. They'll quit. Ar the same time, new players
will want 10 join in. Make sure.always to keep the group at a size
thar you're comfortable with. The. normal-sized group is around
four players.(with the DM asthe fifth person)..However, some
groups are.as small as two players, and others as large as eight or
more. (Very large groups sometime use a nanplayer assistant who
helps manage player actions, rules referencing, and NPCs to help
ithe_DM keep from getting bogged down.) You can also play the
game_one on one, with just.one player and a DM, bur that's a very
different sort of play experience. (It's a good way to handle special
missions such asa paladins atonement.)

If you can, try.to find out from the players how long they're
interested in playing, and try to get a modest commitment from
them to show up on a regular basis during that time.

Integrating New Players: When someone new joins the cam-
paign, his or her character needs to be integrated into the game. At
the same time, the player needs to be integrated into.the group.
Make sure that.a new player knows the table rules as.well as the
\game rules.

Dice Conventions: When someone makes a roll and the die
jJands.on the floor, do you reroll it or use the.die as it lies? What do
\you do with adie that lands cocked against a book? Are players.

required to make all die rolls where the DM can see them? These
questions have no right or wrong answers, but deciding your!
groups answers ahead of time will save you from arguments later.

Book Use: It's best if you decide shead of time which books;
(other than the Player's Handbook) a player can reference anes
playing session.

Rules Discussions: It's probably best if players don't question) 4
jyour rulings or established rules, propose changes to the rules, or
conduct discussions another aspects of the game (aside from
\ what's immediately at hand) during the game itself. Such matters

are best addressed at the beginning or end of the session.

Jokes and Off-Topic Discussions: There are always funny.
athings to be said, movie quotes, good gossip,.and other. conversa:
{tions that crop up during the game, whether they're inspired by |

what's going on in the session or completely extraneous. Decide
for yourself (and as a group) how much is too much. Remember
that thisis.a game and people are there to have fun, yet atthe same}
time keep the focus on the actions of the characters, so.the whole ;
playing session doesnt pass in idle chat.

WORKING WITH PLAYERS

{Two players want the same magic item. Each thinks his character _

can use it best or deserves it for what he's done. If the players
cant find a way.to decide who gets it, you will have to.arbitrate or.
impose a solution. Or, worse, one player is angry with another,
player for something that happened earlier that day outside the |
game, so now his character tries to harass or even kill the other
player's character. You shouldn't sit back and Jet this happen. It's
up to you to step in.and help resolve conflicts such as these.
You're a sort of master of ceremonies as well as an. umpire during
ithe game. Talk with the arguing players together or separately}
outside the game session and try to resolve the conflict. Make it)
clear as nicely as you.can that you cant let anyone's arguments,
ruin the game forthe other players and that you wont tolerate}
real-world hard feelings affecting the way characters within the}
game react to each other.

If a player gets angry when you rule against her, be firm but
kind in telling her that you try your best to be fair and that you
cant have angry outbursts spoiling everyone else's fun. Settle the
matter outside the game session. Listen to her.complaints, but
remember that you're the final arbiter, and that by agreeing to play
in yout game she has also agreed to accept your decisions as DM
(see When Bad Things Happen to. Good Characters, page 18).

Sometimes one player's actions ruin the fun for everyone. An
obnoxious, irresponsible, rroublemaking player can make the
game really unpleasant. Sometimes he gets other characters killed
because of his actions, Other times he stops the game altogether
with arguments, tantrums, or off-topic conversations. Still other
times he might keep everyone from playing by being late or not
showing up at all. Ultimately, you should get rid of this player.
Dont invite him next time. Donitplay the game with someone you
wouldn't enjoy spending time with in another social setting.

If one player dominates the game.and monopolizes your time
with her character's actions, the other players will quickly grow
dissatisfied. Make sure everyone gets his or her turn. Also, make
sureeach player gets to. make his or her own decisions. (Overeager
or overbearing players sometimes try to tell the others what to do.)
Ifone player insists on controlling everything, talk to him outside
the game session and explain that his actions are making things
less fun for everyone.

METAGAME THINKING

“I figure there'll bea lever on the other side of the. pit that. deacti-|
jvates the trap," a player says to the others, “because the DM would)
never create.a trap that we couldn’ deactivate somehow.” That's an}
example. of metagame thinking. Any time the players base their |
characters’ actions on logic that depends on the fact that they're
\playing a game; they're using metagame thinking. This behavior
ishould always be discouraged, because it detracts from real role
playing and spoils the suspension of disbelief.

 
