Surprise your players by foiling metagame thinking. Suppose
the other side of the pit has a lever, for example, butit’s rusted and
useless. Keep your players on their toes, and dont let them second-
guess you. Tell them to think in terms of the game world, not in
terms of you as the DM. In the game world, someone made the
trap in the dungeon fora purpose. You have figured out the reason,
why the trap exists, and the PCs will need to do the same.
|__In short, when possible you should encourage the players.to,

employ in-game logic. Confronted with the situation given above,)
,ap appropriate response from aclever character is “I figure there'll,
bea lever on the other side of the pit that deactivates the trap,
i because the gnomes who constructed the trap must have a means
-to deactivate it.” In fact, this is wonderful—it shows smart think-
ing as well as respect for the verisimilitude of the game world.

KNOWING THE PCS
One. advantage that you always have over a professional writer
[designing an adventure is that you know your players. You know |
pwhat they like, what they're likely to do, what their capabilities |
lare, and what's going on in your campaign right now, That's why,
even when you use a published adventure, you'll want to work to |
ensure that it gets integrated into your campaign properly.

A good DM will always know the following facts about the
characters in his or her game.

The Characters’ Basic Statistics; This includes class, race, level,
hit points, save and attack bonuses, spells, and special abilities. You

should be able to look at a monster's hit points, AC, and special qual-
[ities and be able to judge whether it's a fitting challenge. Compare,
(for example, the monster's AC with the attack bonuses of the char-
\acters in the group—particularly the fighters. When you assume
javerage rolls, can the fighters hit the creature? Do they need above-
laverage rolls? (Lf so, the challenge will be great.) Do they need a nat-
ural 20? (If so, the challenge is almost certainly. too difficult.)

Examine the attack bonus of the monster. Look atthe damage it
can deal. When you compare these pieces of information to the
AC and hit points of the PCs, will the monster be able to hit or
seriously damage the characters? Will it almost certainly kill one?.
If the monster's attack bonus added to an average d20 roll hits the,
character's AC, and the average damage dealt is more than the PC's |
total hit points, the monster will kill the character. When you look |
at the save DCs for the monster's special attacks, are the characters
likely to successfully resist the attack?

These sorts of questions and analyses allow you to judge mon-
sters, encounters, and adventures and determine whether they are
appropriate for your group. Challenge Rating assignments for
such obstacles will help, but no.one knows your group of charac-
ters as well as you do, (See Chapter 3; Adventures for details about

,Challenge Ratings.)
Keep a record of all the characters, their abilities, spells, hit
,points, AC, and so forth. One way_to do this is to require the play-
ers to.give you a new copy of their character sheet whenever the
character attains a new level. This information is helpful to you for
balancing encounters.and monitoring hit point loss and spell
depletion during play. It's also very handy if a player cant make it
to a session, enabling you.to simply hand the character sheet to
whoever is running the character for that session.
The Players’ Likes and Dislikes: Some groups hate political
intrigue and avoid or ignore it in favor of going down into the
dungeon. Other groups are more likely to run from.a.serious com-
_bat challenge. Some groups prefer adventures with mind flayers
and_psionics. Some don't. You're the best judge, if youre aware of
jwhat the players like and what entices them, of whether they will
\partake. in.and enjoy a particular encounter or adventure.

For.example,a.DM might find thar.the lure of gold motivates
the PCs in her group. She knows, then, that in order to get. them
involved in the adventure she has written (or purchased), there
has to be some treasure involved, and the PCs need to know about!

 

it ahead of time. Another group, however, might be interested in,
heroic deeds. They don't care about money, but if they hear that,
the duchy’s in danger from a storm-controlling wizard, they're off |
to stop him ina flash.

Nothing's more frustrating fora DM than to create an adven-
[ture and provide the PCs with the hook that will bring them into
sthe action, only to have them ignore or even consciously reject it.

No one wants to see his or her adventure go unplayed. Know what
interests and motivates the group, and you'll be able to avoid this.
.disheartening possibility.

What's Going on in the Campaign: Since you're managing
the events in the game, you need to keep track of what's going on.
anyway. It's important to always know what the characters are
doing and a little about their plans. If the PCs want to leave the,
area and head into the mountains to find one.of the characters old.
mentors, you need to keep that in mind when preparing that ses-

sion’ adventure and in planning ahead for future sessions,

Keepa record of every significant event that occurs in the game
\A. timeline can help you keep track of when events happened in,
{relation to each other (especially handy for monitoring the activi-

ties of recurring villains), Aboye all, make sure you always have a
good grasp of NPCs’ names (particularly ones you're forced to.
make up in the middle of the game), so that the name of the king
doesn't change abruptly from session.to session, And of course you
should remember what the PCs have accomplished, where they
have been, enemies they have made, and so forth.

know NG THE ADVENTURE AND

THER MATERIALS ;
You're running the game, so you have to know everything. Well,
maybe not everything, bur certainly enough to keep things mov-
ing. If you know.the PCs want to head into the mountains, it's
helpful if, ahead of time, you have looked into how mountain,
travel affects their movement, what it's like to be in the mountains
(possibly through some research in an encyclopedia or travel
book), and other considerations (climbing gear, mountain
encounters, and the like). Lf you have a chance to try.rock climb-
ing, or if you've done it before, so much the better—there's noth-
ing like personal experience to lend realism to your descriptions

More to the point, you will want to have prepared as much as
you can for the adventure ahead of time. You will want to have fig-
ured out what will happen when, the layout of the area (both the
large-scale landscape and individual encounter areas), what the
PCs will encounter if they go toa particular area, how NPCs en-
countered in the adventure will react to the PCs, and the events
likely. to happen (such as a conversation or a fight).

‘When you are running a published adventure, this preparation
often amounts to reading the material carefully and making notes
where you need them. Useful points to note might include any of
the following.

+ Page numbers in the rulebook forrules you know you'll need to,
reference in.a given. encounter,
Changes needed for the adventure to fit into your campaign.
Changes you want to make to please your tastes or those of your
group.
Preplanned actions you want NPCs to take in a given encounter
(ambushes, dying speeches, spell sequences).
Reminders to yourself about rules, adventure structure, events ,
that_might.occur(such as random encounter checks), or-the!
consequences of certain actions.

 

If you are designing an adventure.on your own, your preparation |
requires (obviously) a lot more time. This preparation. might in-|
(clude any of the following elements, seal
|+_Maps of the area (large scale) and of specific smaller areas where
encounters are likely to occur, These can be as simple and
sketchy oras detailed as you like.
