 

CHANGING THE RULES
Beyond simply adjudicating, sometimes you are going to want to
change things. That's okay, However, changing the rules is a chal-
lenge for a DM with only-a little experience.

Altering the Way Things Work 4

Every rule in the Player's Handbook was written for a reason. That}
\doesn't mean you can't change some rules for your own game, Per-|
{haps your players dont like the way initiative is determined, or}
.you find that the rules for learning new spells are too limiting.|

Rules that you change for your own game are called house rules.
Given the creativity of gamers, almost every campaign will, in
time, develop its own house rules.

The ability to use the mechanics as you wish is paramount to
the way roleplaying games work—providing a framework for you
and the players to create a campaign. Still, changing the way the

,game.does something shouldn't be taken lightly. If the Player's
| Handbook presents the rules, then throughout the Dungeon Master’
| Guide you will find explanations for why those rules are the wa
ithey_are. Read these explanations carefully, and realize the impli-)
cations for making changes.

Consider the following questions when you want to change
arule.

* Why am I changing this rule?

+ Am I clear on how the rule that I'm going to change really

works? =

Have I considered why the rule existed_as it. did in the first
place?

How will the change impact other rules or situations?

Will the change favor one class, race, skill, or feat more than the
others?

“Overall, is this change going to make more players happy or

unhappy? (If the answer is “happy,” make sure the change isnt
unbalancing. If the answer is “unhappy,” make sure the change
is.worth it.)
Often, players want to help redesign rules. This can be okay,
since the game exists for the enjoyment of all its participants,
and creative players can often find ways to fine-tune arule, Be,
receptive to player concerns about game mechanics, At the!
same time, however, be wary of players who (whether selfishly |
or innocently) want to. change the_rules for their own benefit.
The D&D game system is flexible, but it's also meant to be a bal-
anced set of rules, Players may express a desire to have the rules
always work in their favor, butthe reality is that ifthere were no
challenges for the characters, the'game would quickly grow
dull. Resist the tempration.to change the rules just to please
your players. Make sure that a change genuinely improves your
campaign for everybody,

  

ADDITIONS TO THE GAME |
As DM, you get to make up your own spells, magic items, races,
and monsters. Your campaign might have a real need fora spell
thar turns foes to crystal, or a monster covered in dozens of ten-/
jracles that drains hear from living creatures, Adding new races,

{ spells, monsters,.and magic items can be a really entertaining and
[rewarding experience.
On the downside, an addition to the game can.spoil game bal-
ance. As stated earlier, maintaining balance is. an important DM.
.responsibility. Most_unbalancing factors are actually hasty or ill-,
considered DM creations. Dont let that happen to you. }
One way to judge whether a new skill, fear, spell, or other op-
tion is balanced is to ask yourself, "If 1 add this to the game, is it
so good that everyone will want to have it?” At the sametime,,
ask yourself, “Is this so limited that no one will be interested in,
it?" Keep in mind that it’s easier and more tempting to create
,something that's too good rather than not good enough, Watch
lyourself.

Making Mistakes
A magic item that allows the characters.to. move. through walls
unhindered, giving them easy. access to.all sorts of places you do.
not want them_to go (at least without great effort), is a mistake,
A 4th-level spell thar kills multiple foes with no saving throw is
a mistake, A race without a level adjustment.that has bonuses of
+4 to Strength and Dexterity is a mistake. _

Usually, the mistakes that creep into a. campaign are the.ones.
that seem innocuous at first. A 1st-level spell creating a blast of |
wind that knocks a foe down appears to be fine—until a shrewd |
player uses it to knock a powerful opponent off the edge of acliff. |
On the other hand, youlll know right away that youshould never!
have put a staff of disintegration with unlimited charges in. that rea-|
sure chest, or you should never have allowed your players to per-|
suade you thar the game would be more fun if critical hits multi-
plied all damage by five.

‘When things get unbalanced, you need to fix them either in-
game or out-of- game, depending on the situation and the involved
players’ personalities. Unbalanced character abilities or items are
best handled in-game, but rule changes can only be handled out-
of-game. Sometimes it's best for you to admit to the players that
you made a mistake, and now it needs to be fixed in order to keep
the game fun, balanced, and running smoothly. The mote reason-
able you are, the more likely your players are to understand.

SETTING THE STAGE
Its worth stating again: Once the game starts, it all up to you. The
players are likely to take their cues from you on how to act and
react. If you handle the game seriously, they'll be more likely to

 

EQUIPMENT FOR RUNNING THE GAME
The following kinds of equipment are available to streamline or
enhance your game. They're not for everyone, however.

DM Screen: This is a cardstock screen (available in many game and
hobby stores) that stands up on the table between you and the players. It
has useful tables and rules reminders on it to speed play. You can also clip
notes to it, so you can see them but the players can't. Behind this screen,
you can put your maps and records on the table, and roll dice where the
players can't see what you're doing. The only drawback is that a screen
creates a wall between you and the players, which can be distancing. DMs
who wish to have the information on the screen handy but don't want to
set themselves apart from the players sometimes lay the screen flat on
the table in front of them, hiding adventure notes underneath

Counters: If you don't have miniature figures for every character or
creature the PCs encounter, you can use any sorts of counters to

represent characters and monsters: printed counters with pictures of
the creatures, poker chips, checkers, coins, scraps of paper—anything
you want

Computers: With a computer at the table (or at your side nearby,
but shielded from players), you can keep all your notes and maps in
electronic files easily searched and referenced during the game,
Special DM utility programs are available that manage NPCs, PCs,
monsters, treasure, and other kinds of information. Some will deter-
mine random encounters, create characters, and generate random
numbers. Not all roleplaying groups prefer to use a computer,
however, because of the tendency of the machine to draw the DM's
attention away from the players and the game. If you find yourself star-
ing at the screen more than at your players, consider scaling back the
computer's in-game use and restrict it to generating or manipulating
material between sessions.

 
