take it seriously. If you come across.with a relaxed, lighthearted
tone, they will crack a few jokes and make side comments of their
own. You make the game the way you.want it to be.

Recapping 4
“Last time, you had just discovered the entrance to the lair of the;
basilisk and learned that a tribe of goblins living nearby appar-

jently worships the creature like a god. You were near the end of}
your fifth day of traveling through the Thangrat Forest. Mialee the,
,wizard had suffered a great wound while fighting the initial)
goblin scouts. Krusk wanted to go straight to the goblins’ camp
and deal with them then and there, bur the rest of you talked him
into helping you find a suitable place to makea safe and defensible
camp. The goblins, meanwhile, were obviously preparing for a
fight, based on the sounds you had heard earlier that day. Now, as
the sun sets beyond the distant mountains, it seems as though the
basilisk is stirring within its lair. What do you do?”

In the middle of a. campaign, recapping activity from the previ-}
ous s¢ssion (or sessions) at the start of a new session often helps)
lestablish the mood and remind everyone what was going on. It,
can be frustrating to DM and players alike that while in the game.
the characters continue what they were just doing, in real life the
players have lived perhaps several days of real time between then
and now, They might have forgotten important details that will
affect their decisions if they don't get reminders.

Of course, you need to keep notes.on what happens so that
.you dontt forget either. At the very least, jotting down a few sen-
|tences about what was going on at the very end of a game session

and bringing them out at the beginning of the next session is
always a. good idea, You may find that youtend to think about the.
igame between sessions more than the players do,.and thus you
have a better grasp of the events. You may get ro. the point where
,you won't forget whar has happened in past sessions, especially
since the adventures you're working on now.will often build off
those events.

USING MINIATURE FIGURES
Metal or plastic figures are used to represent characters, monsters,
and scenery in the game. You can use them on a grid to determine and.
regulate the distance between individuals, tactical movement, line of |
sight, and areas of spell effects. This book includes a two-sided poster,
map containing a sample dungeon on one side and a 1-inch grid on.
the other. (For regular use, a vinyl mat with a grid that you can write
on with wipe-off markers is especially useful. Mats of this sort are
often available at the same hobby and game stores that sell dice.)
Even without a grid, you can use miniatures arrayed on the
table to show marching order and relarive position, or you can use
a tape measure and a scale of 1 inch = § feetto determine distances
jon.the tabletop precisely. Sometimes position in combat means
the difference between life and death, and miniature figures (per-
hapsalong with other suitable objects.to represent terrain features
or dungeon furnishings) help everyone agree on the locations of
characters, creatures, and significant objects,
With a little searching, a player can usually find a miniature
that resembles the character he or she wants to play, and perhaps
is even posed the way the character would carry himself or herself.

MAPPING
When one of the players is drawing a mapas the characters explore
anew place, give her a break. Describe the layout of the place in as
umuch detail as she wants, including dimensions of rooms. For clar-
Lity, you might draw out the shape and size of a room ona grid in
Lfront of you. Be willing to repeat a description if needed. Describe
janything the characters should be able.to see (considering illumi-
nation.and their own vision capabilities) or reasonably estimate
(such.as the distance to the far wall of a cavern). |

Of course, when the PCs are lost in a dungeon or walking,
through fog, the whole point of the situation is that they don't)
know where they are (or where they're going). In cases such as/
these, don't rake pains to help the mapper. If the characters are

,sneaking through a.maze.and they make a wrong turn, it’s all rhe
jmore fun when they have to backtrack.

PACING THE GAME SESSION
‘The pace of the game determines how much time you spend ona,
given activity or action.taken by the characters. Different players,
enjoy different paces. Some players have their characters_pick up|
every copper piece; others decide it's not worth the playing time.
Some roleplay every encounter, while some wantto skip on.to the
“good bits"—combat and other action-oriented activity.
Do your.best.to please the group, but above all, keep things
moving. Don't feel that it’s necessary to play out rest. periods,
replenishing supplies, or carrying out daily tasks unless.the play-
jers want to. Sometimes that degree of detail is an opportunity to
idevelop characters, but most of the time it's unimportant.
Determine ahead of rime, if possible, how long the playing ses-_
sion will last. Doing this enables you to judge about how much
time is left at any point and pace things accordingly—you should,
always end asession at a good stopping point (see Ending a Ses-
sion, below). Three to four hours is a good length for an evening.
game, Some people like to play longer sessions, usually on.a week-
end. Even if you normally play for shorter periods, sometimes it's
fun to run a longer, “marathon’ session.

Referencing Rules
Look at the rules only when you truly need to during a game. While]
the rulebooks are here to help you, paging through a book to)
double-check yourself can slow things down. Look when necessary,
(and mark things you'll need to refer to again with a bookmark), but,
recall a rule from memory when you can. You may not be perfectly
correct in your recollection, but the game keeps moving.

Asking Questions
Don't be afraid to stop and ask important questions. If the players
seem bored, ask if they would like you to skip ahead or pick up the
pace. If you're unsure how they want to handle a situation, ask.

Taking Breaks
When you finish up a lengthy. combat encounter or a tension-
filled scene, take a break. Particularly in.a long playing session,
establish a few breaks for food, drinks, trips to the bathroom, or
just a little time to relax. During this time, you can take your mind
off things for a few minutes, or you can begin to prepare for the
coming encounter.

HANDLING PC ACTIONS

‘The important point ro remember regarding the actions of player
characters during an adventure is that each player controls his or
her.own character. Don't force a character to take a specific action
(unless the character is under a magical compulsion; see below),
Dont tell a player what his or her character's emotions are, Even.
if an NPC with a high Charisma score attempts to persuade a
character, no mere die roll should force a character into doing |
something. Some rules in the game apply specifically to NPCs |
and not PCs, the most significant of which are the rules concern-|
ing NPC attitudes (see NPC Artitudes, page 128, and the Diplo-|
umacy skill.on page 71.of the Player's Handbook). These rules should)
never be used to enable an NPC to change the way.a player char-|
acter views that NPC. When running an NPC, feel free to try
praising, misleading, tricking, cajoling, or. maligning a character,
but dont use your authority as DM to exert control over what a
{player character does,

 
