If the players do not seem_to have understood something you Here are some vivid descriptions you can use to tell players |

said, say it again. Sometimes important points are lost among lots what's going on when a character takes a certain action. j
of new description. Don't be afraid to repeat that_a great deal of a

heat comes up from the grate, or each time the dragonne moves, Action Description }
the ceiling rumbles and dust shakes down onto the floor. The! | Charge “He lunges forward at full speed, eyes full of
sworst that can happen isthat players are reminded how important, | violence.”

the statement is, and they will act accordingly. | full defense “She raises her weapon and watches your

When a character moves, add background. Say “The manticore, _attacks, attempting to parry each.one.”
[moves away from the opening in the far wall, where the foul smell, Aid another “While his ally attacks, he darts in and out of ,
seems to originate,” or “The barbarian steps. even closer to the pit,”) the fight, distracting his foe,” 4
or."The roper slides slowly across the uneven floor.” When a char- Ready a “He's got his weapon trained on that j
acter uses an object, describe the object. “The warrior slashes you ranged weapon area, obviously waiting for something.”
with his wavy-bladed dagger” is much better than “He hits you for Cast a spell “He moves his hands in a deliberate manner
3 points of damage.” and utters words that sound more like an

‘The tone of your descriptions controls the flow of an encounter invocation than a sentence.”
and the mood that the encounter projects over the entire group. If Casta stilied spell “She speaks a few short words, staring
you speak quickly and intently, this lends intensity tothe action. If. intently.”
your. words are frantic, they will make the mood of the scene seem| _, Cast a quickened “With a word and a flick of his hand, . .."

\urgentand desperate. L  \speil

Sometimes it's effective to add a little pantomime to your de-, _| Cast a silenced “She does nothing but make a powerful
scriptions. If a PC's opponent raises his huge two-handed sword. spell gesture,”
above his head to attack the character, raise your hands as if you Use a special ability “Without using words or gestures, she calls
are grasping the sword’s hilt. When someone takesa terrible hit in upon some power within herself, using her
battle, flinch ot recoil with a momentary look of mock pain. Ifthe great will and inner strength.”

PCs are fighting a giant, stand up when the giant takes his actions, Activate a “He focuses intently on his item,

looking down at the seated players, magic item. drawing power fromit."”

Sometimes it’s hard to avoid saying “You miss. He hits. You Delay “She's looking around, sizing up the |

[take 12 points of damage.” And sometimes, that's okay. Long situation, and waiting to react.” }
verbal descriptions can get tedious to give and to hear, and the

game effects are.the important things, However, thar's the. Interesting Combats

exception, not the rule. Most of the time, atthe very least, make The spiral pathway.rose up to the circular platform where the seve]
that “He ducks, and slashes with his longsword for 12 points of enteen magical gems were held in stasis. Below the path,a
damage.” It is usually better in a descriptive way to talk about seething pit of raw, explosive magical energy waited like an open
dealing damage rather than taking damage. “Its claws rake for 8 maw, The four adventurers climbed up the path, eager-to.reach
points” is.at-least somewhat interesting, but “You take 8 points" their goal, bur suddenly a quasit swooped down from some hidden.
describes nothing. recess. Tordek drew his axe, knowing that fighting on this narrow

Remember, 100, that an attack that does not deal damage is not path would be difficult and dangerous. He wasn sure what would
always a miss in the ordinary sense of the word. Heavily armored happen if one of them fell into that magical energy, but he didnt
characters may be frequently hit, but their armor protectsthem.tf| __ want to find out.
you say “His short sword glances off your plate armor,” this not) While any combat can_be exciting. you should occasionally
only describes the action, butmakes the player feel good about his. have the PCs face opponents ina nontraditional setting. Some-
choice to spend extra gold on the good armor. times mounted combat, or aerial combat, can provide a change of

pace, and underwater settings.can be interesting as well. A short
NPC Actions. list of other suggestions appears below.
When an NPC takes a combat action, the players sometimes need
to have.a clue about what's going on—both in the fictional reality Factor Game Effect
of the game and in terms of the game's mechanics. This means that Pits, chasms, bridges, Characters can attempt to push
when a lizardfolk with a crossbow is taking a.ready action to cover and ledges opponents with a bull rush (see page 154 of
{the area in front of a door, the players should have a pretty good the Player's Handbook).
idea that if they move in front of that door, the lizardfolk is going Fog Concealment (20% miss chance) for everyone.
to shoot them. involved,

You need to think about shat various actions look like while Whirling blades. or Characters must make DC 13 Reflex saves
they're happening, Ifyou.were all watching the combat ina movie, giant, spinning gears each round or take 6d6 points of slashing or
what would you see when a.character casts a spell or does some- bludgeoning damage.
thing else that none of you have ever seen.a real person do? Be dra- Steam_vents One random_character must make.a DC 15
matic, and describe the action fully, but avoid overexplaining, Reflex save each round or take 346. points of
because that will slow down the flow of the action. Be consistent damage from the heat.
as well, because your words are not just description, they're cues Rising or lowering Characters can only melee opponents. at the
by which the players make game decisions. If the last time some- platforms same elevation; platforms change elevation ,
one used the aid another action, you described it as “distracting” every other round.
and “harrying,” use those words again. If that means that pretty. Ice or.other slippery Characters must make DC 10 Balance checks |

jsoon your players listen to your description and then say, “Ooh, surfaces each round or_fall prone, and then spend al
ithe wizard must be casting a spell,” you have accomplished some- move action to stand.

thing good—the players have learned your verbal cues to spell- 4

casting. Not only does that allow them to make good decisions, _|For more ideas, see The Environment in Chapter 8: Glossary,
based.on your descriptions, but it lends believability to the fic-| {Chapter 3; Adventures, or take inspiration from an exciting

tional world you are creating. 4 action movie or book.

 
