  
   
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 

  

(5 feet), then 3 squares straight (15 feet), and then another square
diagonally (10 feet) for a total movement of 30 fect.

Armor and Encumbrance
The Player's Handbook explains the effect of armor and encum-|
brance on creatures with base speeds of 20 feet or 30 feet. The table)
below provides reduced speed figures for all hase speeds from 20)
{feet.ro 100 feet (in 10-foor increments).

. Base Speed _ Reduced Speed Base Speed Reduced Speed __
20 ft. 1S ft. 70 ft. 50f.
30 ft. 20 ft. 80 ft 55 ft
40 ft. 30 ft. 90 ft. 60 ft.
50 ft 35 ft. 100 ft 70 ft.
60 ft. 40 ft.

MOVING IN THREE DIMENSIONS

|Not every creature gets around by walking and running. A shark, |

jeven though it moves by swimming, can take a run action to swim}
Haster. A character under the influence of a fly spell can make a,
flying charge. A climbing thief can use part of his speed to climb
down a short wall and then use the remainder to hustle toward a
foe. Use the movement rules to apply to any sort of movement, not
just when traveling across a flat surface.

Tactical Aerial Movement
(The elf barbarian mounted on the giant eagle swoops over the
igroup of mind flayers, launching arrows from his bow: One of the
imind flayers wears winged boots and takes to the air to better con-
front the elf, Once movement becomes three-dimensional and
[involves turning in midair and maintaining a minimum velocity
[to stay aloft, it gets more complicated

Most flying creatures have to slow down at leasta little to make
{a turn, and many are limited to fairly wide turns and must main-
tain.a minimum forward speed. Each flying creature has amaneu-
verability, as shown on Table 2-1: Maneuverability, The entries on
Table 2-1 are defined below.

Minimum Forwand Speed: If a flying creature fails to maintain its,
minimum forward speed, it must land at the end of its movement.
If it is too high above the ground to land, it falls straight down,
descending 150 feet in the first round of falling. If this distance
brings it to the ground, it takes falling damage. If the fall doesnt
bring the crearure to the ground, it must spend its next turn recov-
ering from the stall. It_ must succeed on a DC 20 Reflex save to
recover, Otherwise it falls another 300 feet, If it hits the ground, it
takes falling damage. Otherwise. it has another chance to recover
on its next turn,

Hover; The ability to stay in one place while airborne.

Move Backward: The ability to move backward without turning

jaround,

TABLE 2-1: MANEUVERABILITY

Perfect Good
(Will-o'-wisp) (Beholder)
Minimum forward speed None None
Hover Yes Yes.
Move backward Yes Yes
Reverse Free -5 ft.
Turn Any 90°/5 ft.
Turn in place Any +90°/-S ft
Maximum tum Any Any
Up angle Any Any
Up speed Full Half
Down angle Any Any
Down speed Double Double
Between down and up 0 0

   

Reverse:.A creature with good maneuverability uses up 5 feet of.

its speed to start flying backward
Turn: How much the creature can turn after covering the stated
distance.
Turn in Place: A creature with good or average maneuverability
{can use some of its speed to turn in place.
‘Maximum Turn: How much the creature can turnin any one space.
Up Angle: The angle at which the creature can climb,
Up Speed: How fast the creature can climb,
Down Angle: The angle at which the creature can descend.

Down Speed: A flying creature can fly down at twice its normal |

flying speed.

Between Down and Up; An average, poor, or clumsy flier must fly
level for 2 minimum distance after descending and before climb-
ing. Any flier-can begin descending after a climb without an inter-
vening distance of level flight

EVASION AND PURSUIT

{Un round-by-round movement, simply counting off squares, it's
Limpossible for a slow character to get away from a determined fast
character without mitigating circumstances, Likewise, it's no.
problem for a fast character to get away froma slower one,
When the speeds of the nwo concerned characters are equal, there's
a simple way to resolve a chase; If one creature is pursuing another,
both are moving at the same speed, and the chase continues for at
least a few rounds, have them make opposed Dexterity checks to see
who is the faster over those rounds If the creature being chased wins,
irescapes. If the pursuer wins, it catches the fleeing creature,

Sometimes a chase occurs overland and could last all day, with |

the two sides only occasionally getting glimpses of each other ata,
distance. In the case of a long chase, an opposed Constitution!
check made by all parties determines which can keep pace the,
longest. If the creature being chased rolls the highest, it gets away.
If not, the chaser runs down its prey, outlasting it with stamina

MOVING AROUND IN SQUARES
The characters are all within a corridor only 5 feet wide. A fighter
stands at the end of the corridor, at a dead end, He's been poisoned
and is dying. The cleric wants to get at the fighter to help, bur two
other characters are between them. Thus, there's no way for the cleric
to get next to the fighter and cast neutnalize poison. You can rule that its
okay for the cleric to squeeze past the characters who are in the way,
cast the spell, and then moye back to. where she previously stood.
In general, when the characters aren't engaged in round-by-
round combat, they should be able to move anywhere and in any
manner that you can imagine real people could, A 5-foot square,
for instance, can hold several characters; they just can‘ all fight
effectively in that small space. The rules for movement of minia-
tures are important for combat, but outside combat they can
impose unnecessary hindrances.on character activities.

Maneuverability and Example Creature

Average Poor Clumsy
(Gargoyle) (Wyvern) (Manticore)
Half Half Half
No No No

No No No

No No No
45°/5 ft. 45°/5 ft. 45°/10 ft.
+45°/-5 ft. No No

90° 45° 45°

60° 45° 45°
Half Half Half
Any 45° 45°
Double Double Double
Sft. 10 ft. 20 ft.

 
