   

     
  
 

 

 

Some Creatures on One or Both Sides Aware: In this cas

 

saving throws. Once the damage from the spell is assessed, both

   

     
 

 

 

sides roll initiative. only the creatures that are aware can act. These creatures can take |
Example (Time to Prepare): Jozan the cleric hears the sounds of standard actions before the main action starts i
beyond a door in adun n. He also hears some Example: Lidda is scouting ahead, She and a gar ¢ spoteach

creatures moving
voices, and determines.
thar the creatures are
speaking Orc, He fig-
ures that they don't
know he's there. He
takes the time to cast bless and.
ld_of faith on himself
¢ opening the door
a standard ac
to cast hold person on.the
first foe he sees, He can cast

ge

        

other simultaneously, but_the rest of Lidda’s party doesnt see th
monster (though they are close enough to hear any fighting that
J the gargoyle each get standard act
Lidda and the gargoyle roll initiative.
¢ else rolls int

       
      

ns, and then

    

 

erupts). Lidda a

    

 

     

 

normal combat statis
before taking their actions, and everyo!

tiarive after. those actions are. concluded.

    

 

    

      

     
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
    
   
      

   

   

the hold person. spell before
anyone makes an initiative check,
unless the orcs heard him casting
dof faith.in
hich case they
ware, Jozan doesnit get the action that

> previous 2

 

     

become

rson, and held

 

bled him to cast hold
better hope
initiative check.

Both Sides Aware at the Same
Time: If both sides are aware at
the same time and can interact,
both should roll initiative and

   

he gets the higher result on his

 

 

 

orm

 

f each side. becomes
her but cannot

act immediately, track time in rounds,

 

 

of the c

   
 
 

 

punt of time

  

poth sides the same
unds, until the two sides can
in to.unteract
Example (Both Aw
Immediately): A party of adventurers burst =o
into a dungeon room full of orcs, and ne
knew of the other ahead of time. All are equally

 

 

e and Can Interact

 

 

      

 

urprised and|
that tho:

 

   

equally flat-footed. Initiative is rolled, reflecting harac

 

   

  
 

     

       

ters with berter reflexes act quicker in such situations, e Surprise Round
Example (Both Aware but Cannot Interact Immed: When only one side is aware.of the other, the DM runs the first
adventurers comes along a dungeon corridor and hears round of combat as-a surprise round. In this round, each charac

e of the other side
he fact that even
s spent

   

ter gets only a standard action. Only those.aw
all. This rule reflects t
some amount of

 

laughter of orcs beyond the door ahead. Meanwh
lookout sees the adventures through a peephole in'the doorand can take an)
warns his comnades. The door is closed, so no direct inters when a combatant is prepared
is possible yet, Jozan casts bless. Lidda drinks.a potion. Tordek a
Mialee move up to the door. At the same time, the orcs move into lowed to begin with
position, and one uses a ring of invisibility to hide. The DM This rule makes initiative have less of an impact, since it is
records the passage of 1 round. The adventurers arrange them- the first round when initiative matters most. Even if a warrior gets.
d the door and make a quick plan. The orcs turn over the jump on.an opponent, at best he ca
tables and nock arrows in their shortbows. The DM tracks insta foe before that foe can react.
nother round, The fighter opens the door, and the DM calls for
initiative check from all, The third round begins, this time NEW COMBATANTS

h the order of actions being important (and dictated by the The adventurers are fighting for their lives against a group
initiative check results intent on throwing them into a dank pit to feed to the dragon th

 

action

   

     

hus only standard actions are

 

he situation, and

assessin,

     

 

 

 

  

   

   

selves aro

   

 

   
        
     

 

parate initiative check for the

   

IANT: SAPIENT MOUNTS + You can ask the player to make a

 

A paladin's mount is as smart as some characters. Giant eagles, giant mount. This means the mount moves and attacks at its own place in

     

   

owls, and pegasi are all highly intelligent. When such creatures are part _the initiative order, reinforcing its nature as a separate character.
of the action, you have two choices However, that may be extremely inconvenient for a rider who is
carried away from her opponent! In such cases, of course, the rider

e check result with her

     

ve, just like can always delay to synchronize her init

 

+ You can force the mount to act on its rider's ini

mounts of animal intelligence. This means that mount and rider act mounts. Likewise, the mount may choose to delay to coincide its

    

essentially, simultaneously movement with its rider's.

 

    
