controls this part of the dungeon, Suddenly, in.the middle ofthe KEEPING THINGS MOVING

fight, a strike team of dwarves wanders into the room where the Initiative dictates the flow of who goes when. Itis the tool thatthe
battle rages. If, in the course of a bartle berween.two sides, some game uses to keep things moving, but ultimately it's you who
third group enters the battle, they should come into the action in needs to make sure that happens. Encourage the players to be
between rounds, The following rules apply to this situation,, _jready with their actions when each one’s turn comes up. Players
whether or not the newgroup is allied with one or more existing| _{have less fun if they spend.alorof time sitting at the table waiting
side involved in the encounter. 4. .,for someone else to decide what to do.
Newcomers Are Aware: If any (or all) of the newcomers are, Some resourceful players will learn tricks to help you move
\aware of one or both of the sides in a bartle, they take their actions} things along. When attacking, they roll arrack and damage dice at,
,before anyone else. In effect, they go first in the initiative se- .once, so that if successful, they can tell you the damage that they,
iquence. Their initiative check result is considered to be 1 higher \deal immediarely. If they know thar their next action will require,
than the highest initiative check result among the other partici- adie roll, they'll roll it ahead of time, so thar when you ask them.
_pants in the encounter, If differentiation is needed for the actions what they're going to do, they can tell you immediately, ("I arrack
ofthe newcomers, they act in order of their Dexterity scores,high- with my battleaxe and hit AC 14. If that’s good enough, 1 deal 9,
est to lowest. The reason for this rule is twofold. points.of damage.") Some DMs like to have players: make each roll |
* Since they're aware, but there's no way to get an action ahead of separately, so you'll have to decide for yourself whether you allow
,— everyone else (because the encounter has already started), they iprerolling,
| go first so simulate their advantage. This happens whether the} _] One useful thing you can do is to write down the initiative se-
| other sides are aware of the new side or not. }- 4quence once it’s determined for a given encounter. If you place
}+ Placing the newcomers at the beginning of the round means, _{this information where all the players can see it, each will know
that those who had the highest initiative check results prior to) when his character's tun is coming and hopefully will be ready to
their arrival are the first characters to have an opportunity to tell you his action when it comes time for him to.act. Dontwrite.
react to them. This is an important advantage for characters down the NPCs’ places in the initiative sequence. atleast not until
with high places in the initiative order. they have acted once—the players shouldnit know who's going to
Newcomers Not Aware: If any or all of the newcomers are not act before the enemies and who will act after. Ir's too easy to plan
aware of the other sides when they enter the encounter (for actions around when their opponents act.

example, the PCs stumble unaware into a fight benveen two mon- i
sters ina dungeon), the newcomers still come into play at the. Simultaneous Activity

 

beginning of the round, but they roll initiative normally. If one of When you play out a combat scene or some other activity for!
the other characters involved in the encounter has ahigher initia- which time is measured in rounds, it can be important to remem-,
tive check result than one or more of the newcomers, that charac- ber that all the PCs' and NPCs’ actions are occurring simultane-}
{ter can react to those newcomers before they get a.chance to act ously. For instance, in. one 6-second round, Mialee might be trying,
i{the newcomers are caught flat-footed), ©. to cast a spell at the same time that Lidda is moving in to make.a,
If more than one new group enters an existing encounter at the sneak attack.
same_time, you must first decide if they are aware of the However, when everyone at the table plays out a combatround,.
encounter, Those that are unaware, “stumbling in,” roll initiative. each individual acts in turn according to the initiative count for
Those that are aware act first in the round, in the order of their his character, Obviously, this is necessary, because if every indi-
Dexterity scores, even if they are not in the same group, vidual took his turn at the same time, mass confusion would
Example: A group of powerful adventurers fights.a nagain.a| _result. However, this sequential onder of play can occasionally lead
dungeon room. The naga rolled badly for initiative, and all the ad-| _ to situations when something significant happens toa character at
venturers act before it, Berween rounds three and four of that bat-| __the end of his rurn but before other characters have acted in the
tle, three orcs on a random patrol stumble in. At the same time, same round.
two more nagas arrive, having been alerted by the sounds of the For instance, suppose Tordek hustles 15 feet ahead of his
battle. At.the beginning of round four, the two new nagas act in friends down a corridor, turns a.corner, and hustles another 10
the order of their Dexterity scores, Then the orcs roll for initiative, feet down a branching corridor, only to trigger trap at the end of
and the results of their rolls are placed within the normal initiative his turn.In order to maintain the appearance of simultaneous
order for the battle. In this case, poor check results place them activity, you're within your rights to rule that Tordek doesnt trig-
.dead last, even after the original naga. get the trap.until the end of the round. After all, it takes him some
Then the adventurers act, able to react either to the flat-footed time to get down the corridor, and in an actual real-time situation
jorcs or to the new naga reinforcements. Then the original naga the other characters who have yet to act in the round would be
tacts. followed by the orcs (who probably flee from this battle, taking their actions during this same time.

which is clearly out of their league). ‘This same sequence is used
for subsequent rounds of the battle, =

  

VARIANT: STRIKING THE COVER

INSTEAD OF A MISSED TARGET the covering creature, the covering creature takes the damage
In ranged combat against a target that has cover, it may be impor- _ intended for the target.

tant to know whether the cover was actually struck by an incoming If the covering creature has a Dexterity bonus to AC or 2 dodge

attack that misses the intended target. First, determine if the attack — bonus, and this bonus keeps the covering creature from being hit, then
roll would have hit the protected target without the cover. If the the original target is hit instead, The covering creature has dodged out
attack roll falls within a range low enough to miss the target with of the way and didn’t provide cover after all. A covering creature can
cover but high enough to strike the target if there had been no choose not to apply his Dexterity bonus to AC and/or his dodge bonus,
cover, the object used for cover was struck. If a creature is provid- if his intent is to try to take the damage in order to keep the covered
ing cover for another character and the attack roll exceeds the AC of character from being hit.

 

 

 
