COMBAT ACTIONS

A troll with a longspear mounted on a purple worm can reach
opponents 4 squares away, Surrounded by enemies, it can guide its
mount’ attacks against the same foe that it attacks, hoping to take
him our of the combat entirely, or it can attack one foe and encour: |
age the worm to bite (and try to swallow) another while it stings.a}
third enemy with its venomous tail. Combat can be a tactical game}
lin.and of itself, filled with good and bad decisions.

You need to play each NEC appropriately. A combat-savvy fight:
.ccwith a fair Intelligence score isnt going to allow his opponents}
to get attacks of opportunity unless he has to, but a stupid goblin
might. A phase spider with an Intelligence of 7 might figure that

_phasing in behind the dexterous wizard he’s fighting is the best
course of action (since the wizard blasted him with a magic missile
spell last round), bur an ankheg (Intelligence 1) might not know

which character is the biggest threat.

Agjudicating Actions Not Covered
While the combat actions defined in the Player's Handbook are)
[numerous and fairly comprehensive, they cannot begin to cover.
every possible action that a character might want to take. Your job |
is to make up rules on the spot to handle such things. In general,
use the rules for combat actions as guidelines, and apply ability
checks, skill checks, and (rarely) saving throws when they are
appropriate.
The following are a few examples of ad hoc rules decisions.
‘+ Reinforcements show up to help the bugbears that the adven-
turers.are fighting. Tordek can hear these newcomers attempt-
ing to open the door to get in, He races to the door and tries to
hold it shut while the others finish off the foes in the room. If
it were a normal door, you might call for an opposed Strength
check between Tordek and the bugbears pushing on the door.
Since the door is already stuck, however, you decide that the
bugbears must first push it open and then (if they succeed)
make an. opposed check against Tordek.

* Amonk sants to jump up, grab a chandelier, and swing on it
into. an.enemy, You rule that a DC 13 Dexterity check allows the.
monk to grab the chandelier and swing. The player asks if the,
monk can use his Tumble skill, and you let him, Ruling thar the,
swing is somewhat like a charge, you give the monk a +2 bonus,
on the roll to see if his dramatic swinging attack succeeds,

A sorcerer readies a spell so that he casts it as soon as he sees a
beholder's small eyes shoot rays. (He decides this is the best way

for him to determine whether the beholder’s antimagic ray_is.
currently. active.) That means, however, that the rays need to.
have actually fired before the spell is cast (the spell can’ go)
before the rays in.this case), Still, the sorcerer needs to know if,
\ he gets his spell cast before he's struck by the dangerous mys.
You rule that ifthe sorcerer.can beat the beholder in an opposed
check, he can get the spell off. The sorcerer makes a Wisdom
check, and the beholder opposes that with a Dexterity. check,

Combat Actions outside Combat
|As a general rule, combat actions should only be performed in|
combat—when youre keeping track of rounds and the players are.
acting in initiative order, You'll find obvious exceptions to this
rule. For example,a cleric doesn't need to roll initiative to cast cure,
light wounds on.a friend after the battle’s over. Spellcasting and skill.
use are often used outside combat, and thar’s fine. Atacks, readied
actions, charges, and other actions are meant to simulate combat,
chowever, and are best used within the round structure.
Consider the following situation: Outside combat, Lidda de-_
icides to pull a mysterious lever thar she has found in a dungeon
room. Mialee, standing right next.to her, thinks that Lidda’s sud-
den plan is a bad. one, Mialee tries to stop Lidda. The best way.10,
handle this situation is by_using the combat rules as.presented,
Lidda and Mialee roll initiative. If Lidda wins, she pulls the lever.
If Mialee wins, she grabs Lidda, requiring a melee touch artack (as
if starting a grapple). Lf Mialee hits, Lidda needs to determine.
whether ornot she resists. (Since Mialee is agood friend, grabbing |
{Lidda’s arm might. be enough to make her stop.) If Lidda keeps |
trying to pull the lever, use the grapple rules to determine)
whether Mialee can hold Lidda back.

Adjudicating the Ready Action ;
The ready action is particularly open-ended and requires that you,
make the players using it be as specific as possible about what
their characters are doing, If a character readies a spell so that it
will be cast when a foe comes at her, the player needs.to specify
the exact spell—and you're justified in making the player identify
a specific foe, either one that the character is currently aware of or
one that might come at her from acertain direction.

Ifa character specifies a readied action and then decides not to
perform the action when the conditions are met, the standard rule
is thatthe character can kecp his action readied. Because combat is
often.confusing and fast, however, you're within your rights to

 

VARIANT; AUTOMATIC HITS AND MISSES
The Player's Handbook says that an attack roll of natural 1 (the d20
comes up 1) is always a miss. A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) is
always a hit

This rule means that the lowliest kobold can strike the most
magically protected, armored, dexterous character on a roll of 20.
It also means that regardless of a warrior's training, experience,
and magical assistance, he still misses a given foe at least 5% of
the time.

A different way to handle this is to say that a natural 1 is treated as
a roll of -10, Someone with an attack bonus of +6 nets a —4 result,
which can't hit anything. Someone with a +23 attack bonus rolling a1
would hit AC 13 or lower. At the other extreme, a natural 20 is treated
asa roll of 30. Even someone with a —2 attack penalty would hit AC 28
with such a roll.

VARIANT: DEFENSE ROLL

More randomness can sometimes eliminate the foregone conclusion
of a high-level character who always hits, or a low-level one who never
has a chance. A good way to introduce this randomness is to allow (or

force) characters to make defense rolls. Every time a character is
attacked, rather than just using his never-changing, static AC, he
makes a d20 roll and adds it to all his AC modifiers. Every attack
becomes an opposed roll, with attacker and defender matching their
modified rolls against one another. (One way to look at it is that with:
out the defense roll, characters are “taking 10" on the roll each round,
and thus are using a base of 10 for Armor Class.)

The defense roll can be expressed like this:

1420 + (AC - 10)
For example, a paladin attacks an evil fighter. The paladin rolls a 13 and
adds his attack bonus of +10 for a result of 23. The fighter makes his
defense roll and gets a 9. He adds his defensive bonuses (all the things
that modify AC, including armor), which amount to +11. The fighter's
result is 20, less than 23, so the paladin hits.

This variant rule really comes in handy at high levels, where high:
level fighters always hit with their primary attacks, and other characters
rarely do. Unfortunately, it can siow down play, almost doubling the
number of rolls in any given combat. A compromise might be to have
each defender make a defense roll once in a round, using that same
total for all attacks made against him in that round.

 

 
