 

make ita little harder on the character who readies an action and
doesnt take that action when the opportunity presents itself. You
have two options.
+ Allow the character to forgo the action at the expense of losing
the readied action. +.
Allow the character to. attempt a DC 15 Wisdom check to avoid,
| taking the readied action. Thus, if a character covers a door with |
|a.crossbow, he can make.a Wisdom check to keep from firing,
|the crossbow when his friend comes through the door. A}
»—successful check means thar he doesnt fire at his friend, and is,
still ready to shoot the ghoul chasing the friend. A failure
means he completes the action he readied and shoots the first
creature through the door—his friend,

Smart players are going to learn that being specific is often bet-
ter than making a.general statement. If a character is covering a
door with a crossbow, he might say, “I shoot the first enemy that

,comes.through the door.” Although players can benefit from
jbeing specific, you should decide if a certain set of conditions is
}too specific. “L cover the door with my crossbow so that I shoorthe!
first unwounded ghoul that comes through" might be too specific, ,
because it’s not necessarily easy to tell an unwounded ghoul from,
awounded one, especially when the judgment must be made in an
instant. Ultimately, it's your call.

Dont allow players to use the ready action outside combat.

While the above examples are all acceptable in the middle of an
encounter, a player cannot use the ready action to cover a door
with his crossbow outside combat. It’s okay fora player to state
|that he's covering the door, bur what that means is that if some-
\thing comes through the door he's unlikely 10 be caught unaware.
Uf the character. coming through the door syasn't aware of him, he
gets an extra standard action because he surprised.the other char-
\acter, and so he can shoot the weapon. Otherwise, he still needs to
toll initiative for his character normally.

ATTACK ROLLS

Rolling a.d20 to see if an attack hits is the bread and butter of com-
bat encounters. It’s almost certainly the most common die roll in,
any_campaign. Because of that, these rolls run the risk of becom:,
ing boring, When a roll as exciting and important as.one that!
determines success or failure in combat becomes dull, you've got)
to do something about it, 4
Attack rolls can be boring if a player thinks that hitting is a fore-
gone conclusion or that his character has no chance to hit. One

 

BEHIND THE CURTAIN: CRITICAL HITS

Critical hits are in the game to add moments of particular excitement.
Critical hits, however, are deadly. The PCs, over the course of a single
game session, let alone a campaign, are subject to many more attack
rolls than any given NPC. That makes sense, since the PCs are in every
battie, and most NPCs are in just one (the one in which the PCs defeat
them, usually). Thus, more critical hits are going to be dealt upon any
single PC than any single NPC (and the NPC was probably not going
to survive the encounter anyway). Any given PC is more likely to survive
an encounter—but a critical hit against the character can change all
that. Be aware of this potential, and decide how you want to deal with
it ahead of time.

The reason that critical hits multiply all damage, rather than just the
die roll, is so that they remain significant at high levels. When a high-
level fighter adds +5 to his damage roll from magic and +10 from his
magically enhanced strength, the result of the 148 damage roll from
his longsword becomes trivial, even if doubled by a critical hit.
Multiplying all damage, the roll and the bonuses, makes critical hits
particularly dangerous. In fact, they can completely determine the
course of a battle if one or two are dealt. That’s why they make the

way_that. the rules address this potential problem is by providing
decreasing attack bonuses for multiple attacks. Even if a charac-|
ter's primary.attack always hits whatever he fights, that's not true |
of his secondary or tertiary attacks,

One thing thar can keep attack rolls from becoming humdrum
Lis good visual description. It's not just “a hit,” it’s a slice across the
{dragon's neck, bringing forth a gout of foul, draconic ichor, See
below for more advice on description,

Critical Hits }
When someone gets a 20 on an attack roll, you should be sure to |
point out thar this isa threat, not a critical hit, Calling ita critical
hit raises expectations that might be dashed by the actual critical
roll. When a critical hit is achieved, a vital spor on the creature was,
hit. This is an opportunity for you to give the players some vivid,
description to keep the excitement high: "The mace blow hits the

ore squarely on the side of the head. He lets our a groan,and his

jknees buckle from the impact.”

4—Certain creatures are immune to critical hits because they do_

Tnot have vital organs, points of weakness, or differentiation from
one portion of the body to another. A stone golem is.a solid,
human-shaped_mass of rock. A ghost is all insubstantial vapor. A
gray.ooze has no front, no back, and no middle.

DAMAGE

Since combat is a big part of the game, handling damage is.a big.
part of being the DM.

Nonlethal Damage }
When running.a.combat, make sure that you describe non-
lethal and lethal damage differently. The distinction should}
be clear—both in the players’ imaginations and on their char-|
acter sheets. |

Use nonlethal damage to your advantage. Itis an invaluable tool
if your adventure plans involve the PCs’ capture or defeat, but you.
dontt want to risk killing them. However, ifthe PCs' opponents are
dealing nonlethal damage more often than not, the players begin
to lose any feeling of their characters being threatened, Use non-
Jethal damage sparingly, but.to. good effect,

Players, in general, hate for their characters to be captured.
When your NPCs start dealing nonlethal damage to the charac-
ters, the players may actually get more worried than if they were
taking lethal damage!

   

game both more interesting and more uncontrollable

Remember, a critical hit feels like a lot of damage, but the difference
between a double-damage critical hit and a normal hit is no greater
than the difference between a miss and a hit. Taking a triple-damage
critical hit, however, is like getting hit an extra two times, and taking a
quadruple-damage critical hit is like getting hit an extra three times.

The weapons in the Player's Handbook are balanced with the follow:
ing idea in mind: Good weapons that deal triple-damage critical hits do
50 only on a 20. Good weapons that deal double-damage critical hits
do so on a 19-20. Axes are big and heavy. They're somewhat difficult
to use efficiently, but when one does, the effect is devastating. An
executioner uses an axe for this reason. Swords, on the other hand, are
more precise—sword wielders get in decisive strikes more often, but
they're not as crushing as those dealt by axes. A few other factors are
considered as well (reach, the ability to use a weapon as a ranged
weapon, and more), but for the most part, this is the basic rule of
thumb. Thus, it would be a mistake to add to the weapon list some
new weapon that dealt triple-damage critical hits on a 19-20. (Results
such as this might be possible through magic or feats, but should not
be a basic quality of any weapon.)

 
