 

VARIANT; CLOBBERED

Ultimately, damage doesn’t matter until a character is unconscious or
dead. It has no effect while she's up and fighting. It's easy to imagine,
however, that she could be hit so hard that she’s clobbered, but not
knocked unconscious or dead.

Using this variant, ifa character takes half her current hit points in
damage from a single blow, she is clobbered. On her next turn, she
can take only a standard action, and after that turn she is no longer
clobbered.

This variant will often lead to slightly faster fights, since taking
damage would somewhat reduce the ability to deal damage. It
would also increase randomness by increasing the significance of
dealing substantial but less than lethal damage. it would also
make hit points more important; clerics would want to cure fight-
ers long before fighters are at risk of dying, because they might be
at risk of being clobbered. Finally, it may be easier for a superior
combatant to get unlucky. That fact could hurt PCs more than
NPCs in the long run.

VARIANT:

MASSIVE DAMAGE BASED ON SIZE

Ifa creature takes 50 points of damage or more from a single attack,
she must make a Fortitude save or die, This rule exists primarily as a
nod toward realism in the abstract system of hit point loss. As an extra
touch of realism, you can vary the massive damage threshold by size,
so that each size category larger or smaller than Medium raises or
lowers the threshold by 10 hit points, This variant hurts halfling and
gnome PCs, familiars, and some animal companions. it generally
favors monsters

Size F D T s M L H c c
Damage 10 20 30 40 SO 6 70 80 90

VARIANT; DAMAGE TO SPECIFIC AREAS

Sometimes, despite the abstract nature of combat, you're going to
want to apply damage to specific parts of the body, such as when a
character's hands are thrust into flames, when he steps on caltrops, or
when he peeks through a hole in the wall and someone shoots an
arrow into the hole from the other side. (This situation comes up most
frequently with devious traps meant to chop at feet, smash fingers, or
the like.)

When a specific body part takes damage, you can apply a -2
penalty to any action that the character undertakes using that
portion of his body. For example, if a character's fingers get slashed,
he makes attacks rolls with a weapon in that hand at 2 and he takes
2-2 penalty on skill checks involving the use of his hands. If a char-
acter steps on a caltrop, he takes a ~2 penalty on skill checks involv-
ing the use of his feet (in addition to the effects described in the
Player's Handbook)

Chapter 8 of this book defines some effects of damage to specific
body parts, such as what happens when a character is blinded or deaf-
ened. In addition to that information, use the table below as a guide to
what rolls are modified by injuries to what body parts.

This penalty lasts until the character heals, either magically or by
resting. For a minor wound, such as stepping on a caltrop, a DC 15
Heal check, 1 point of magical healing, or a day of rest removes the
penalties,

You can allow a character to make a Fortitude save (DC 10 +
damage taken) to "tough it out” and ignore the penalty. Also, these
penalties shouldn't stack—two hand injuries should not impose a
—4 penalty.

Location Damage Affects:

Hand Climb, Craft, Disable Device, Escape Artist, Forgery. Heal,
Open Lock, Sleight of Hand, and Use Rope checks; attack
rolls.

Climb and Swim checks; attack rolls; Strength checks.

All attack rolls, saves, and checks.

Appraise, Craft, Decipher Script, Disable Device, Forgery,
Open Lock, Search, Sense Motive, Spellcraft, and Spot
checks; Survival checks (for tracking); initiative checks;
Dexterity checks; ranged attack rolls; Reflex saving throws
Severe damage to both eyes causes a character to become
blinded,

Listen checks; initiative checks. Severe damage to both ears
‘causes a character to become deafened.

Balance, Climb, Jump, Move Silently, Ride, Swim, and
Tumble checks; Reflex saving throws; Dexterity checks.

Head
One eye

 

One ear

Foot/Leg

VARIANT: WEAPON EQUIVALENCIES

The party slays a drider armed with magic short swords. The party's
halfling rogue is delighted. Even the party's human ranger wants one
of the swords. As DM, you gently remind them that while they are short
swords, they are Large weapons (see Weapon Categories on page 112
of the Player's Handbook). The human ranger can use one of them as
a one-handed weapon at a -2 penalty, and the halfling rogue can use
‘one as a two-handed weapon at a—4 penalty.

The rules on weapon categories are based on the idea that most
weapons do not look like smaller or larger versions of other weapons,
nor are they used in the same fashion. The shape of a longsword
reflects its primary use; it is not simply a big dagger. This variant
suggests weapon equivalencies for DMs who wish to offer their play-
ers more utility from monster weapons. If a weapon has an equiva-
lent, a character proficient in the equivalent can use the weapon with
no penalty,

On the table below, find the Medium weapon in question in the left
column and then read actoss to the size of the creature in question
For instance, a Medium battleaxe is equivalent in this system to a
Large handaxe. Alternatively, find the size of the wielder and read down
the column until you find its weapon, The weapon column then shows
what is equivalent for a Medium character. For example, a Large battle-
axe is equivalent in this system to a Medium greataxe.

WEAPON EQUIVALENCIES

Medium ——— Size of Equivalent Weapon ———
Weapon Tiny Small Large
Battleaxe = Greataxe Handaxe
Club = Greatelub Sap*
Dagger Longsword Short sword 9 —

Dart Spear Shortspear —

Fiail, heavy =_ =— Flail, light
Flail, light = Fiail, heavy =
Greataxe = = Battleaxe
Greatclub — = Club
Greatsword _ = Longsword.
Handaxe Greataxe Battleaxe -
Longsword — Greatsword Shortsword
Mace, heavy - — Mace, light
Mace, light — Mace, heavy —

Pick, heavy = Pick, light
Pick, light a Pick, heavy -
Shortspear _ Spear Dart

Short sword Greatsword Longsword Dagger
Spear — — Shortspear

* A sap deals nonlethal damage

 

 
