at the center, then if the majority of a grid square lies within that I

circle, the square is a part of the spell’s area.

Cones: Determining the area of a.cone spell requires that the
caster declare a direction and an intersection where the cone
starts. From there, the cone expands in a quarter circle.

Miscellaneous; Using the rules given aboye, apply areas to the
grid as well as you can. Remember to maintain a consistent num-)
{ber of affected squares in areas that differ on the diagonal.

BIG AND LITTLE CREATURES IN COMBAT.
Creatures smaller than Small or larger than Medium have special
rules relating to position. These rules concern the creatures’
“faces,” or sides, and theirreach.

Table 2-4: Creature Sizes summarizes the characteristics of
each of the nine size.categories. The Max. Heightand Max. Weight
columns are guidelines, not firm limits; for instance, almost all
Medium creatures weigh between 60 and 500 pounds, bur excep-

 

tions. can exist. The figures in the Space and Natural Reach |

,columns are explained below.

Space: Space is the width of the square a creature needs to,
fight without penalties (see Squeezing Through, below). This
width determines how many creatures can fight side by side in a
10-foot-wide corridor, and how many opponents can attack a
creature at the same time. A creature's space does not have a front,
back, left, or right side, because combatants are constantly
moving and turning in battle. Unless.a.creature is immobile, it
effectively doesn't have a front ora left side—at least not one you

ican locate on the tabletop.

Natural Reach: Natural reach is how far a.creature can reach
when it fights. The creature threatens the area within thatdistance
from itself Remember that when measuring diagonally, every
second square counts as 2 squares, The exception isa creature with

,10-foot reach, It threatens targets up to 2 squares away, including a
2-square distance diagonally away from its.square. (This is an
exception.to the rule that. 2 squares of diagonal distance is meas-
ured as 15 feet.)

As.a general rule, consider creatures to be as tall as their space,

meaning that a creature can reach up a distance equal to its space ,

plus its reach.

Big Creatures
Large or larger creatures with reach weapons can strike our to!
double their narural reach but cant use their weapons at their nat-
ural reach or less,
A creature may move through an occupied square if it is three
size categories or more larger than the occupant.

TABLE 2-4: CREATURE SIZES

Max. Max. Natural Reach
Size Height’ Weight? Space. (Tall) (Long)
Fine Gin. 1/8 1b. 12k Oh Of

orless orless
Diminutive 1 ft. Lib. Lf. Of Of
Tiny 2h. 8 ib, 212% Of. Of.
Small 4 ft. 60 Ib, 5 ft. 5 ft. 5 ft
Medium 8h 500 Ib. Sh. Sf. Sf.
Large 16ft. 4,000 Jb,_10 ft. 1Of,__5 ft,
Huge 32h. 32,000 Ib. 15 ft. 15 ft. Of.
Gargantuan 64 ft 250,000 Ib. 20 ft. 20.ft. sf.
Colossal 64 ft 250,000 Ib, 30 ft. 30 ft. 20f,

ormore ormore  ormore or more or more

)_Biped’s height, quadruped's body length (nose to base of tail).

2. Assumes that the creature is roughly as.dense.as a regular animal. A
creature._made of stone will weigh considerably more. A gaseous
creature will weigh much less.

Very Small Creatures

Tiny, Diminutive, and Fine creatures have no natural reach. They!
must enter an.opponent's square (and thus be subject to an attack |
of opportunity) in order to attack that opponent in melee)
junless they are armed with weapons that give them at least 5 feet
Jof reach.

Becatise Tiny, Diminutive, and Fine creatures have no natural
reach, they do not normally get attacks of opportunity. Specific
creatures may be exceptions, and some may. carry reach weapons,

that do threaten adjacent squares. ho |

Mixing It Up

Two creatures less than two size categories apart.cannot occupy.
the same spaces in. combat except under special circumstances (for,
example, when grappling, riding a mount, or if one.is unconscious.
or dead).

_Creatures two size categories apart can occupy the same space
{without special circumstances, Half the normal number of crea-
tures.can occupy the space as usual (fractions are not allowed).

Creatures may occupy the same square if they are three or more
size categories different, For instance, a human could occupy.one
of the squares also occupied by.a purple worm.

Example: A human (Medium) fights a cloud giant (Huge), The |
human occupies.asingle space. The cloud giant occupies roughly,
nine spaces. If the human tried to occupy-one.of the giant's spaces,
up to half as many. humans as normal could fit. since the creatures
are two size categories apart. Since that only amounts to one-half |
of a human, the human cannot occupy one of the giant's spaces |
without grappling.

Example; A halfling (Small) fights the same cloud giant. The |
halfling, like the human, occupies a single space. If the halfling |
tries to occupy one.of the giant's cubes, the normal number of |
halflings (one) could fir, since the creatures are three size cate-|
gories apart

Ifa creature is in at least one of the spaces occupied by.alarger.
creature when that creature moves out of that space without
taking a 5-foot adjustment or a withdraw action, then the smaller
creature gets attacks of opportunity against the departing creature.

Since a creature can attack into its own space (unless armed
with a reach weapon), a smaller creature in one of the spaces occu-
pied by another creature cannot take a withdrawal action.

Any.time more than one allied creature occupies an opponent's
space (either in the same square on the grid or in separate squares),
the allied creatures provide each other with the benefit of flank-
ing. If a creature occupies part of an opponent's space, it provides
flanking to all allied creatures outside the opponent's space.

Example: A colony of stirges (Tiny) attacks a human (Medium)
Up to four Tiny creatures can occupy the same space. They are two
size categories apart from a human, so up to two Tiny stirges can
occupy the same space as the human, and they provide each other
with flanking against the human.

Example: A squad of halflings (Small) attacks a buletre (Huge).
The bulette takes up.aspace three squares across. Since the half
lings are three or more size categories apart from the bulette, they
can enter the space the bulette occupies. Each halfling can only,
occupy one space, but the bulerte occupies nine squares, so up to
nine halflings can occupy the same space as the bulette. The half
lings provide each other with flanking.

Squeezing Through

_A creature.can.squeeze through a space as narrow. in width as one-
half its space. While doing so, it moves at half its normal speed, It,

takes a—t penalty on attack rolls and a—+4 penalty to AC. Whilea}

\creature-is squeezing through a narrow space, it's not possible for

jother-smaller creatures to also occupy that space.

A creature can_move through a space with a ceiling as low as
half its height with the same penalties (in spaces both narrow and

 
