  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
    
    
   
  
     

low, double the penalties). It can move through a space with aceil-

ing as low as one-quarter its height, but it must do so by going

prone and crawling. The normal penalties and restrictions for

being prone apply.

Standing in Tight Quarters }
.A creature may find itself standing atop a rocky pinnacle, fighting |
}from the back of a wagon, or taking advantage of the cover pro-|
|vided by a hole in the ground. In.such cases, the creature's space.
(decreases to match the space available on the ground, but its at-)
jtacks are unaffected because its upper body isn't constrained, It|
|can.use its weapons and natural reach without penalties,

The whole game can be boiled down to the characters trying to ac-
,complish various. tasks, the DM determining how difficult those.
| tacks are to accomplish, and the dice determining success ot fail-]
[uce. While combat and spellcasting have their own rules for haw!
(difficult tasks are, skill checks and ability checks handle just about,

levenpehing clan.

MODIFYING THE ROLL OR THE DC
Circumstances can modify a character's die roll, and they can
modify the Difficulty Class needed to succeed.

+ Circumstances that improve performance, such as having the
perfect tools for the job, getting help from another character,
|-and having unusually accurate information, provide a bonus on
} the die roll.

\*_ Circumstances that hamper performance, such as being forced
| to_use improvised tools or having misleading information,
|-_ provide a penalty on the die roll.

(+ Circumstances thar make the task easier, suchas a {friendly audi-
ence or helpful environmental conditions, decrease the DC.
Circumstances that make the task harder, such asa hostile audi-
ence or doing work that must be flawless, increase the DC.

THE DM'S BEST FRIEND
A favorable circumstance gives a character a +2 bonus on.a skill)
check (or a-2 modifier to the DC) and an unfavorable one gives a}
~2 penalty on the skill check (or a +2 modifier to the DC). Take,
special note of this rule, for it may be the only one you'll need.

Mialee runs down a dungeon corridor, running from a
beholder, Around the corner ahead wait two ogres. Does Mialee
hear the ogres getting ready to make their ambush? The DM calls
for a Listen check and rules that her running from the beholder
makes it less likely that she's listening carefully: -2 penalry on the

check. But one of the ogres is readying a portcullis trap, and the
{cranking winch of the device makes .a lot of noise: -2 modifier to
}the DC. Also, Mialee has heard from another adventurer that the
jogres in this dungeon like to. ambush adventurers; +2 bonus on
the check. Her ears are still ringing from the shout spell that she
cast at the beholder: ~2 penalty on the check. The dungeon is
already noisy because of the sound of the roaring dragon on the
level below: +2 modifier to the DC.

You can add modifiers endlessly (doing so is not really a good
thing, since it slows down play), but. the point is, other than the
PC's Listen check modifier, the only numbers thar the DM and the
player need to remember when calculating all the situational

.modifiers are +2 and -2. Multiple conditions add up_to give the

icheck a total modifier and the DC a final value.

|Going beyond the Rule: It’s certainly acceptable.1o modify

{this rule. For extremely favorable or unfavorable circumstances,

lyoucan use modifiers greater than +2 and less than —2. For
example, you can decide that a task is practically impossible and
modify the roll or the DC by 20. Feel free to modify these numbers,

as you see fit, using modifiers from 2 to 20.

DELINEATING TASKS

A task is anything that requires a die roll. Climbing half. one’s!
speed is a task, as is making a por, despite the fact that one task,
takes seconds and the other hours (or even days).

| A single task can encompass.any of the following activities

{+ Moving a set distance (as. covered in a skill description),

\* Making one item,

Influencing one person, creature, or group (DM decides if

NPCs are acting as individuals or as 2 group),

4* Dealing with one object (opening a door, breaking a board, |

tying a rope, slipping out of a manacle, picking a lock).
Determining or acquiring one piece of information.
Searching or tracking over one area (as described in.a skill or
feat description).
Perceive one sound or sight (DM decides if NPCs are reacting as
individuals ot as a group).

Different skills handle task delineation in different.ways.In
Tact, the same skill may handle tasks in different ways depending
jon what the character is doing. For example, Heal allows the

shealer to make one character stable or to assist in a group’ overall
healing rate over a night's rest. Both of these are single tasks.
requiring only one roll.

Sometimes, however, a.task requires multiple rolls, You must
decide, for example, if a character attempting to use Sense Motive
on a group of ogres must treat them as a group (one roll) oras indi-
viduals (a different roll for each ogre).

If two different groups approach a character from a distance,

jhe has to make two different Spot checks.to see them if you have)
decided that they are indeed different groups. Ifa character)
searches one wall using the Search skill, he might find several
objects of importance—but you decide that each such object)
requires a separate roll, In such a case, you should make the rolls)
beyond the first one in secret. Asking the player to. make more,
than one roll at the same time gives him information that he
shouldn't have.

A few examples of long-term duties (and how many. tasks they
comprise) follow.

Character on Watch: The rest of the party sleeps while Mialee
takes the watch. The DM asks for.a Listen.check about half an
hour into her watch, and she succeeds. She hears a rustling noise
in the nearby bushes (made by.a goblin that.was trying to sneak up
on the party). She decides to investigate, and the DM calls for a
Spot check opposed by a Hide check from the goblin. Mialee dis-
covers nothing (the goblin successfully conceals itself), so she
goes back to. where she was keeping watch. Later, the DM asks for
another Listen check (as the goblin once again tries to move in),
and she succeeds again. This time she catches the goblin and alerts
the rest of the party to deal with the foe. Eventually they go back
to sleep, and she goes back on watch. Later, the DM calls for
another Listen check, even though he knows there's nothing to,
hearthis time.

The duty of being on watch required three Listen checks, be-
cause. the watch was broken into three segments—at the first
appearance of the goblin, upon checking for the goblin the second
time, and after. the goblin was dealt with.

Riding: Soveliss rides his horse along rocky terrain, making no
roll to perform this mundane task. He guides it down into.a steep |
gully, and you call fora DC 10 Ride check to do so, At the bottom |
of the gully, an owlbear menaces a wounded centaur. The ranger}
spurs his mount into the fray, making no roll to do so. Once in|

_ battle, the owlbear slashes at the ranger with a powerful claw. You)

call fora Ride check for Soveliss to stay.on the horse, and another}
one to keep the now-panicking horse from running off. The,

Lranger succeeds on both checks, and then decides to leap out of,
ithe saddle and fight the beast, requiring a DC 20 Ride check.

Soveliss succeeds again, meaning that he dismounts without
falling and moves to engage the owlbear.
