Skill Risk

Balance Falling

Climb Falling

Craft Ruin raw materials

Disable Device Device triggers, or is not disabled
Spot (reading lips) Receive false information

Swim Sink below surface of water
Use Rope: Grappling hook fails in 144 rounds

TAKING 10

Encourage players to use the take 10 rule. When a character is)

\swimming or climbing along distance, for example, this rule can
really speed up play. Normally, you make.a check each round with
these movement-related skills, bur if there's no pressure, taking 10
allows them to avoid. mae a lot of rolls just to get from point A
to point B

ABILITY CHECKS ©

(The. game has.no-tules for trying to stay awake through the!
night, writing down every word someone says without a mis=_
take, or opening the stuck lid of a container without spilling a
single drop of its contents. However, in the course of an adven-
ture any of these situations could potentially make or break an
encounter. You have to be ready to make up checks for such non-
standard activities,

Using the example situations above, staying awake might be a
\Constitution check (DC 12, +4 for every previous night without
isleep), with an elf character gaining a +2 bonus on her check
because an elf is only giving up 4 hours of trance instead of 8

hours of sleep, Writing down every word that someone says would.

\fequire a DC 15 Intelligence check, and a DC 10 Dexterity check
|prior to the Intelligence check would provide a+2 bonus on the
iroll. Opening the container would normally be a Strength check
\(DC about 17), and once that’s accomplished, a DC 13 Dexterity
\check is required to keep from spilling the contents,

The three kinds of ability checks you could call for to handle a

nonstandard situation include the following.

* Asingle check using an relevant ability (as in staying awake),

* One ability check that, depending on the result, might provide
4 modifier on another check involving a different ability (as.in.)

writing down every word).

*_‘Two.or more separate ability checks, usually involving different,
abilities, to accomplish a multipart task (such as opening the |
jug without spilling),

You can also use a combination of an ability check and a. skill!
{check in an appropriate situation. For example, when swimming
Jin frigid water, Lidda might have to make a Constitution check to
javoid taking a penalty on her Swim check.

Decisions on how_to handle nonstandard situations are left.to.

your best judgment,

Adjudicating and varying saving throws works a lot like. adjudicat-
ing and varying skill and ability checks,

WHICH KIND OF SAVE?

(Fortitude, Reflex or Will? When assigning something asaving
ithrow, use these guidelines.

Fortitude: Fortitude saves reflect physical roughness. They,

jincorporate stamina, ruggedness, physique, bulk, metabolism,
resistance, immunity, and other similar physical qualities. If it,
seems like something that a “tough guy” would be good ar, it's a,
Fortitude save.

Reflex: Reflex saves reflect physical (and sometimes mental)
agility, They incorporate quickness, nimbleness, hand-eye coor-
dination, overall coordination, speed, and reaction time If it
seems like something that an agile person would be good at, it's
a Reflex save,

Will: Will saves reflect inner strength, They incorporate will-|
power, mental stability, the power of the mind, levelheadedness,
determination, self-confidence, self-awareness, the superego, and |
resistance to temptation. If it seems like something that a confi-
dent or determined person would be good at. it's a Will save.

SAVE OR CHECK?

A character slips and falls. He tries to catch himself ona ledge,
while another character reaching forward attempts to catch him.
Are these Reflex saves or Dexterity checks?

The answer to the above question is “Both.” The character at-
tempting to save himself makes a Reflex save, The character trying
to grab him makes a Dexterity check,

 

VARIANT: SKILLS WITH DIFFERENT ABILITIES

Sometimes a check involves a character's training (skill ranks) plus a
innate talent (ability) not usually associated with that training. A ski
check always includes skill ranks plus an ability modifier, but you ca

fn
i
n

use a different ability modifier from normal if the character is in a situ-

ation where the normal key ability does not apply.
For example:
A character is underwater and tries to maneuver by pulling himse

Mf

along some improvised handholds. Since his body has natural buoy-

ancy (meaning he doesn't need to pull as hard to lift himself), th

DM rules that the player should make a Climb check keyed to

Dexterity rather than to Strength.
A character is trying to pick the best horse from several that

a

merchant is selling. Normally this would be an Appraise check, but
familiarity with horses ought to count for something. The DM lets
the player use the character's ranks in Ride instead of ranks in
Appraise and applies the character's Wisdom modifier (as normal

for an Appraise check).

A character needs to use main force to restrain a panicked horse.

Normally this would call for a Strength check, but a character skilled

    

at handling animals ought to be able to use his knowledge to
restrain the horse more easily. The DM lets the player add the char-
acter’s ranks in Handle Animal (but not his Charisma modifier) to
the Strength check.

A character has created a masterwork dagger as a gift for a visiting
noble. He attempts to inscribe it with intricate designs. The DM
rules that this is a Dexterity check to which the character's ranks in
Craft (weaponsmithing) apply.

A character is trying to climb a ladder to the bottom of a very deep
chute. Normally, the DM would call for a Constitution check to see
if the character can keep going, but he can also allow the player to
add the character's ranks in Climb to the roll

These sorts of unusual situations are always handled on a case-by-case
basis, and only as exceptions. The vast majority of the time, use the
normal key ability.

Remember that when you change the way a skill works in this fash
jon, you should dictate when the change comes into play—it's not up
to a player to make this sort of decision. Players may try to rationalize
why they should get to use their best ability score modifier with a skill
that doesn't normally use that ability, but you shouldn't allow this sort
of rule change unless you happen to agree with it.

 
