The Player Could Learn Too Much; The strategic use of a
divination spell could put too much information into the
hands of the players, ruining a mystery.or revealing a surprise
too soon. The way to avoid this problem is to keep in mind the
capabilities of the PCs. when you create adventures, Don't forget.
that the cleric might be able to use her commune spell to learn,

ithe identity of the king’s murderer. While you shouldn't allow a}
\divination to give a player more information than you want her)
\to have, you shouldn't cheat a player out of the effects of her)
spells just for the sake of the plot. Remember also that certain,
spells can protect someone from divinations such as detect evil,
and discern lies—but that's not really the point. Don't design sit-
uations that make the PCs’ divinations worthless—design situ-
ations to take divinations into account, Assume that the cleric
learns the identity of the king's murderer, That's fine, but the
adventure is about apprehending him, not just identifying him,
vand it's.especially important to stop him before he kills the
squeen.as.well. }

In short, you should contro] information, but don't deny ito)
the character who has earned it. }

Needing Answers on the Fly: Most likely you won't know.
that a character is going to use a divination spell until the spell is
cast, and so you often need to come up with an answer on the fly.

One of the ways to get around this problem is obvious. To an-
swer a question about what lies at the bottom of the dark staircase,
you have to know. what's there. Chances are you already do know

\vhat's there, or the character using the divination wouldnt con-
(sider the question worth asking. If you don't know, then you need
to make something up in a hurry,

More difficult is coming up witha way.to.convey the infor-
umation. For example, the description.of the divination spell
\notes that “The advice can be as simple as.a short phrase, or it
ymight take the form of a cryptic rhyme.or omen.” Cryptic
irhymes.are often difficult to come up. with in the middle of a

game, One trick is to create a rhyme ahead of time that can fit
just about any. question, such as “If X is the seed you sow, reap
you.will Y and know,” where X is an action and Y is. the result. Or
“If into X fate doth thee send, thou wilt find Y in the end,”
where X is a place and Y isa result or consequence, such as/
“danger” or “treasure.”

CREATING NEW SPELLS
Introducing an unbalanced spell does more damage to your
game than handing out an_unbalanced magic item, A magic
item can get stolen, destroyed, sold, or otherwise raken away—
but once a character knows a spell, she's going to want to keep
using it

When creating a. new spell, use the existing spells as bench-|
marks, and_use. common sense. Creating a spell is actually fairly |
easy—it's assigning a level to the new spell thar's hard. 1f the}
“best” 2nd-level spell is invisibility, and the “best” tst-level spell is |

{charm person or sleep, and the new spell seems to fall between
{those spells in power, it's probably a 2nd-level spell, (Sleep, how-
sever, is a strange example, because it’s a spell that gets less useful

‘as the caster gains levels—compared to a spell such as.magic mis-

sile or fireball, which gets better, up to a point, for higher-level,
casters. Make sure spells that only affect low-level creatures are)

low-level spells.)

Here are some pieces of advice to consider,

* Ifaspell is so good thar you can't imagine a caster not wanting.
it all the time, it’s either too powerful or too low in level.
An.experience point (XP) cost is a good balancing force. An|
expensive material component is only a moderately good
balancing force. (Money can be easy to come by;.an_XP loss
almost always hurts.)

4*_ When determining level, compare range, duration, and target.
(or area) to other spells to balance. A long duration or a large

area can make up fora lesser effect, depending on the spell.

A spell with avery limited use (only works against red dragons).
could conceivably be one level lower than it would be if ir had.

amore general application. Even ata low level, this isthe sort of.
spell.a sorcerer or bard_never takes,.and other casters would

prepare it only if they. knew in advance it would be worthwhile,

Wizards and sorcerers should not cast healing spells, but they |
should have the best offensive spells If the spell is flashy or)
dramatic, it should probably be a wizard/sorcerer spell. ;
Clerics are best at spells that deal with alignment.and have. the.
best selection of curative and repair spells. They also have the
best selection_of informarion-gathering spells, such as;
commune and divination,

Druids are best at spells thar deal with plants and animals
Rangers and paladins should not have flashy attack spells in
the manner of magic missile and fireball
Bard spells include enchantments, information-gathering
spells, and a mixture of other kinds of spells, but do not include
powerful offensive spells such as cone of cold.

Damage Caps for Speils
For spells that deal damage, use the tables below (one for arcane
spells, one for divine spells) to determine approximately how
much damage a spell should deal. Remember that some spells
(such as burning hands) use a d+ for damage, but fireball uses a dé.
For clerics, a d8 damage die counts as 2d6 for determining the
maximum damage 2 divine spell can deal.

 

VARIANT: SAVES WITH DIFFERENT ABILITIES

To model unusual situations, you can change the ability score that
modifies a save, just as you can do with a skill (see the sidebar on page
33), This is purely a variant, however, since not all DMs want this
degree of complication.

Fortitude saves against mental attacks (such as phantasmal killer)
could be based on Wisdom, making it a cross between a Fortitude and
a Will save. (Apply the character's Fortitude save bonus from class and
level, then add his Will modifier instead of his Constitution modifier.)

The DM may allow a character to cast a quickened dimension door
spell in response to falling into a pit trap, Reacting quickly to a trap
requires a Reflex save, but in this case the DM might make this a Reflex
save based on Wisdom rather than Dexterity, since casting the spell is
mainly a mental action.

Will saves against enchantments could use Charisma instead of
Will, since Charisma reflects force of personality.

Will saves against illusions could be keyed to Intelligence, the abil-
ity that best represents discernment.

As with skills, changes to a saving throw's key ability are always
handled on a case-by-case basis. Unless you institute changes to
saving throws as a house rule, these changes are very rare.

Remember that when you change the way a saving throw works
in this fashion, you should dictate when the change comes into
play—it's not up to a player to make this sort of decision, Players
may try to rationalize why they should get to use their best ability
modifier on a saving throw that doesn’t normally use that ability,
but you shouldn't allow this sort of rule change unles you happen
to agree with it

 

 
