times, it can be trickier. Suppose the PCs sneak past the sleeping
minotaur to get into the magical vault—did they overcome the
minotaur encounter? If their goal was to. get into the vault and the
minotaur was just a guardian, then the answer is probably yes. It’s
up to you to make such judgments.

Only characters who take part in an encounter should gain the)
commensurate awards, Characters who died before the encounter}
\took place, or did not participate for some.other reason, earn noth-)
Ling, even if they are raised or healed later on.

‘Todetermine the XP award foran encounter, follow these steps | 1

1. Determine each character's level. Don't forget to account for

LECL (see Monsters as Races, page 172).if any of the characters
are of a powerful race,

2. For each monster defeated, determine that
single monster's Challenge Rating,

3. Use Table 2-6: Experience Point

, Awards (Single Monster) to.cross-

jreference one character's level) e&

jwith the Challenge Rating for = =~

Jeach defeated monster to. 2@2S-
find the base_XP_award.

4, Divide the base XP award by the
number of characters in the party. This is
the amount of XP that one character
receives for helping defeat that monster.

s. Add up all the XP awards for all the

imonsters the character helped defeat.

6. Repeat the process for each character.

 

=<

Do not award XP for creatures that enemies summon or other-
wise add to their forces with magic powers. An enemy's ability
|to. summon or add these creatures is parof the enemy's CR
already, (You don't give PCs more XP if a drow cleric.casts unholy

 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 

ee ©

blight. on them, so dont give them more XP if she casts summon,
monster. 1V instead.)
Example: A.party_of five PCs defeats two CR 2 monsters. sndal
CR 3 monster, The party consists of a 3rd-level character, three
|4th-level characters, anda Sth-level character. The 3rd-level char-
Jacter earns 600 XP for each CR 2 monster and 900 XP for the CR 3
\monster. Thar’s 2,100 XP, and dividing by 5 (the number of charac-
ters in the party) yields an experience award of 420 XP. The 4th-
level characters each carn 400 XP {(600 + 600 + 800) + 5] and the.
5th-level character earns 350 XP [(500 + S00+750)+ 5]. +

Monsters Below CR |
Some monsters are fractions of a Challenge Rating.
For instance, a single orc is not.a good challenge,

for even a 1st-level party, although two,

might be, You could think of an orc as
/ “approximately CR 1/2. For these.cases,
/ calculate XP as if the creature were CR,

___ 1, then divide the result by 2

Challenge Ratings for NPCs
An NPC with a PC class has.a Challenge,
Rating equal to the NPC's level. Thus,.an
Sth-level sorcerer is an Sth-level encounter, As a
rule of thumb, doubling the number of foes adds 2.10
the Encounter Level. Therefore, two Sth-level fighters are.an EL.
10 encounter. A party of four NPC sth-level characters is.an EL 12)
jencounter.

Some powerful creatures are more of a challenge than. their}
level would suggest. A drow, for example, has spell resistance and
other abilities, so her CR is equal to her level +1.

Some creatures have monster levels in addition to their class)
levels, such as a centaur ranger. In this case, add the creature's

 

VARIANT: SUMMONING INDIVIDUAL MONSTERS
When a character casts a summon monster or summon nature's ally
spell, she gets a typical, random creature of the kind she chooses. As
a variant in your campaign, you can rule that each spelicaster gets
specific, individual creatures rather than just some random one. This
variant lets players fee! more ownership aver the creatures that their
characters summon, but it entails some special problems, so don't
allow it without considering it carefully,

Specific Creatures: Whenever a spellcaster summons a single crea-
ture of a given kind, it's always the same creature. A player can roll the
ability scores and hit points for each creature that his character can
summon. His specific creatures may be above or below average. Allow
the player to take average statistics instead of rolling if he wants to
avoid the risk of getting stuck with bad dice rolls, (There's no “hope-
less creature reroll” for bad ability scores in this case.) The player can
also name each creature and define its distinguishing characteristics.

Multiple Creatures: Whenever a spellcaster summons more crea-
tures, the first one is always the same, and each successive creature is
likewise always the same. Thus, if Mialee can summon up to three
celestial eagles named Kulik, Skitky, and Kliss, then she always gets
Kulik when she summons one celestial eagle, Kulik and Skitky when
she summons two, and all three when she summons three. The player
can roll ability scores and hit points for all three.

The summoner gets the same creatures no matter which version of
a spell she uses. Mialee gets Kulik with summon monster I! and she
gets Kulik plus possibly Skitky and Kliss with summon monster Ill.

Summoning Limits: Getting the same intelligent summoned crea-
ture over and over again gives a summoner certain advantages. She
can, for instance, send a creature to scout out an area for the duration
of the spell and then summon it up again to get a report. If the crea-

ture is killed (and thus sent back to its home) or dispelled, however,
that individual creature is not available to be summoned for 24 hours.
The summoner summons one fewer creature of that kind because the
unavailable creature still takes up its normal “slot.” Thus, if Kulik is
killed and later that day Mialee summons two celestial eagles, she only
gets Skitky (instead of Kulik and Skitky).

if a creature that a character summons is actually, truly killed (not
just “killed” while summoned), it is no longer available, and the
summoner gets one less creature of that kind than normal. On attain-
ing a new level, however, the summoner may replace the slain creature
(see below).

Replacing Creatures: Each time a summoner gains a level in a spell:
casting class, she can drop out one of her creatures and roll up a new
one to fill its “slot.” For example, at Sth level, Mialee can summon
Kulik, Skitky, and Kliss with summon monster II. When she reaches 6th
level, she can drop any one of her summonable creatures and replace
it with a new one. If Kulik has low ability scores or if it has permanently
died, she can drop it in favor of a new, randomly rolled creature, which
then occupies her “first celestial eagle” slot.

Improving Creatures: Summoners can improve their creatures.
Typically, they do so by giving them magic items or other special
objects. The trick is, a summoned creature can't take things back home
with it. When a summoned creature disappears, it leaves all the things
that it gained while on the Material Plane. Mialee can’t just summon up
Kulik and give it a cloak of resistance. She has to go to its plane or bring
it actually onto the Material Plane before she can give it anything it can
keep. The way to get a creature to actually come to the Material Plane is
to use a lesser planar ally, planar ally, greater planar ally, lesser planar bind-
ing. planar binding, greater planar binding, or gate spell, since these are
all calling spells and actually bring the creature to the caster.

 

 
