 

reating adventures 4s one of the. great benctits of being’a
Dungeon Master, It's a way to express youtself creatively,
designisig fintastic places and events filled with monsters
and imaginative elements of all kinds, When you design
an adventure, you call the shots, You do things exactly the
way You want to, Designing an adventure can bea lot of work but
the tewardsate great. Your players will thrill anche challenges and
tiysteriésyou have created forthem, Experiénced DMs pride.
themselyes. on: masterfub'adveritures, creative new situations and
locales/and intrigting NPCs. A well-honed encountér—whether
ir’ a Monstet, a trap, or an NPC who must be reasoned with—can
Bé'a chit Gf beauty.

“What is an adventure?" isitas easy A question to answeras you
might think, While a Gampaign is made up of adveritures, it'sinot
always clear where one adventure ends and another begins
AdVéntiires cat be so Varied.that it’s tough to/pin down the basics:
This chapter is going to try to-help-you do thar.

An adventure startswith some sort of hook, whether it's a
famor of treasure in an old, abafdoned monastery or a plea for
help from the queen. The hook is what dtaws'thePCs into the
action and gets them to the point where the story of the adyen-

 

 

   

  

 

“rare aly begins: This.point:might be a location (such as the me

astery or the queen's palace) or an event (the theft of the
scepter, which the PCs are msked with recovering),
Adventures are broken down into encounters! Encounters are
typically keyed to areas on a map that you have prepared
Eneounters can also be designed in the form of iffthen state-
ments:"If the PCs wiair outside the druid'sgrove for mbre than at
hour, then his three trained dire bears. attack The encounters of
an adventure are all linkedfn some way, whetherin theme fall
the.encounters that occur as they travel from the City of Grey-

 

 

    
     

Pyeng 7 spy

  
 

te t f
be tow «
Oakhurst

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

hawk to'the Crystalmist Mountains), location all the
efcounters in the guins ofCastle Temefity), or events (all
the encounters that occuf@s the PCs arémpt to rescue the
mayor's Son from Rahurg the ogre king)

J

Motivation is whatdrives.the adventure—ir's what gets
the PCs involved in whatever you have designed for them
to do, If the BGsarenr motivated, they wont do-whar you
Want them to, and all your work will be wasted sGreed,
morality, anger, and.curiosity are all
motivators, So, of course, is fim. Never forget

  

 

 

powerf
that last one

Writing aii ddventitre with strong-motivation is
really a midtter of knowing what style of game you and
yout players prefer (see page 7 for a discussion of dif-
ferént playing styles

aaaHL AALdVHD

TAILORED. GR STATUS QUO

Tailored motivations are ohes that you have specifi-

cally designed with your group’: PCs in mind. Here

are just @ few of many. possible examples:

+ The PCs area hardened group of mercenariesenot
interested in the pleas of innocents or the stories
of evil thar ‘threatensssome good kingdom,
However, they are quite interested in gold...
Mialee the wizard has been slain by thé gatgoyles in the
Caverns of Dread. Now the other PCSséek a means
t6 raise her. They know of good-hearted cleric of
Pelor to the south, in‘the city of Dyvers When.

   
