  

  

 
  
   
  
   

they arrive, the cleric is willing to raise Mialee, bur only if the PCs

help him by ridding the temple's lower level of wererats....

You know that the party has just finished clearing outa wizard's

tower and has lots of treasure. Therefore, you don't lure them to

the next adventtire using the promise of gold, but instead with

the rumor:that.the wizand isnt deed, but has risen 2s a vampire

and has sworn revenge... I
Tordek’s brother Ralcoss comes. tothe PCs, explains that_aj
terrible tragedy has beset the dwarven city of Dumadan, and)
asks for their help

| A status quo motivation isnt really a motivation in the strict sense

of the word. Ir’s the fact thar (for instance) adventure awaits in the
Lost Valley for anyone who dares brave the wyvern-haunted cliffs
that surround the place. The PCs can go there or not, depending
on how they feel.

While a tailored motivation is good for ensuring that the PCs end
jup in the adventure you have designed and for letting the players
[feel thar their characters have a real place in the world, a starus quo}.
| motivation allows you to set up situations unrelated to the PCs)
' specifically. Doing this creates a sense of perspective, the feeling |

that the campaign world is a real place that extends beyond the PCs.

 

 

   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
    
 

An_adventure runs its course from the beginning to an.ending.|
Some adventures are completed in an hour. Others take months.of
{playing sessions, Length is up to you, although it’s smart to plan
{ahead and know roughly how many sessions an adventure will last
\(and make sure that the.current group of players can commit to
thar length). Following are some guidelines to keep in mind for
structuring good adventures and avoiding bad ones.

| GOOD STRUCTURE

Good adventures are fun. That's an easy generalization, but it's also
true. An adventure that everyone enjoys likely includes the fol-
lowing features. }
Choices; A good adventure has at least afew.points where the
players need to make important decisions. What they decide should
have significant impact on what happens next. A choice can be as
Tsimple as the players deciding not to go down the corridor to the.
jleft. (where the pyrohydra waits for them) and instead going to the.
jright (toward the magic fountain), or as. complex as the PCs decid-
ing not to help the queen against the grand vizier (so that she ends.
up being assassinated and the vizier's puppet gains the throne),

 

ONE HUNDRED ADVENTURE IDEAS

Use the following list for spur-of-the-moment adventure seeds or for
generating ideas.

d% Adventure Idea

Thieves steal the crown jewels.

A dragon flies into a town and demands tribute.

The tomb of an old wizard has been discovered.

Wealthy merchants are being killed in their homes.

The statue in the town square is found to be a petrified paladin.

A caravan of important goods is about to leave for a trip

through a dangerous area.

Cultists are kidnapping potential sacrifices.

Goblins riding spider eaters have been attacking the outskirts

of a town.

9 Local bandits have joined forces with a tribe of bugbears.

10 A blackguard is organizing monsters in an area

1 Agate to the lower planes threatens to bring more demons to
the world.

12 Miners have accidentally released something awful that once
was buried deep.

13. Awizards’ guild challenges the ruling council,

14_ Racial tensions rise between humans and elves.

15 Amysterious fog brings ghosts into town.

16 The holy symbol of a high priest is missing.

17. An evil wizard has developed a new kind of golem.

18 Someone in town is a werewolf.

19° Slavers continue to raid a local community.

20 A fire elemental escapes from a wizard's lab.

21 Bugbears are demanding a toll on a well-traveled bridge.

22. A mirror of opposition has created an evil duplicate of a hero.

23. Two orc tribes wage a bloody war.

24 New construction reveals a previously unknown underground
tomb.

25 Anearby kingdom launches an invasion,

26 Two well-known heroes fight a duel.

27 An ancient sword must be recovered to defeat a ravaging
monster,

28 A prophecy foretells of coming doom unless an artifact is
recovered.

29 Ogres kidnap the mayor's daughter.

awe un oe

on

    

30 A wizard is buried ina trap-filled tomb with her powerful magic
items.

31 An enchanter is compelling others to steal for him.

32 A shapechanged mind flayer is gathering mentally controlled
servitors.

33. A plague brought by wererats threatens a community.

34 The keys to disarming all the magic traps in a wizard's tower
have gone missing

35 Sahuagin are being driven out of the sea to attack coastal
villages.

36 Gravediggers discover a huge, ghoul-filled catacomb under the
cemetery.

37 Awizard needs a particularly rare spell component found only
in the deep jungle.

38 A map showing the location of an ancient magic forge is
discovered.

39. Various monsters have long preyed upon people from within
the sewers of a major city.

40. An emissary going into a hostile kingdom needs an escort.

41 Vampires are preying upon a small town.

42 Ahaunted tower is reputed to be filled with treasure.

43 Barbarians begin tearing up a village in a violent rage.

44 Giants steal cattle from local farmers.

45. Unexplained snowstorms bring winter wolves into an otherwise
peaceful area.

46 A lonely mountain pass is guarded by a powerful sphinx
denying all passage

47 Evil mercenaries begin constructing a fortress not far from a
community,

48 An antidote to a magic poison must be found before the duke
dies.

49. A druid needs help defending her grove against goblins.

50 An ancient curse is turning innocent people into evil murderers.

51 Gargoyles are killing giant eagles in the mountains.

$2 Mysterious merchants sell faulty magic items in town and then
attempt to slink away.

53. Arecently recovered artifact causes arcane spelicasters’ powers
to go awry.

54 An evil noble puts a price on a good noble’s head.

55 Adventurers exploring a dungeon have not returned in a week,

continued on next poge
