Difficult Choices: When a choice has a significant. consequence, it sionally include undead thar she can use her turning ability. on If,

 

should sometimes be a difficult one to make. Should the PCs help the party. has.a ranger or a druid, include encounters with animals |
the church of Heironeous wage war on the goblins, even though (dire animals can make challenging encounters for even mid- 10,
the conflict will almost.certainly keep them from reaching the high-level PCs; see the Monster Manual for more information). The.
Fortress of Nast before the evil duke summons the slaadi assassins?| _jadvice to remember is “Everyone gets a chance to shine.” All abili-
Should the PCs trust.the words of a dragon, or ignore her warning? __{ries available to PCs were designed to make the characters better,
Different Sorts of Encounters: A good adventure should pro-, _,but an ability (ora spelll) thatacharacter never gets to use is a waste.
vide a number of different experiences—attack, defense, prob-, =
lem-solving, roleplaying, and investigation. Make sure you vary). BAD STRUCTURE |
the kinds of encounters the adventure provides (see Encounters... __{Try to avoid the pitfalls described below, }
page 48), Leading the PCs by the Nose: A bad event-based adyenture is.
Exciting Events: Like a well-told story, a good adventure marked by mandates restricting PC actions or is based on events
should have rising and falling tension, This sort of pacing is easier that occur no matter what the PCs do. For example,a plot that
to accomplish with an event-based adventure (since you have hinges on.the PCs finding a mysterious heirloom, only to have it,
more control over when each encounter takes place), but it's pos- stolen by NPCs, is dangerous—if the players invent.a good way to,
sible in a site-based adventure to design a locale where the protect the heirloom, they won't like having ir stolen anyway.just
encounters are likely to occur ina desired fashion. Make sure to __,hecause that's what you had planned beforehand. The players end
,pace.events appropriately. Start slowly and have the action build A} _jup feeling powerless and frustrated, No matter what, all adven-
\climactic encounter always makes for a good ending. |. {tures should depend upon player choices, and players should feel |
Encounters that Make Use of PC Abilities: If the party's, as though what they choose to do matters. The results should
wizard or sorcerer can cast fly, think about incorporating aerial affect the campaign setting (albeit perhaps in minor ways), and.
encounters into the adventure. When there's a cleric along, occa- they should have consequences (good or bad) for the PCs.

   

continued from previous poge

56 The funeral for a good fighter is disrupted by enemies he made 80 All the doors in the king’s castle are suddenly arcane locked and
while alive. (fire trapped.
57 Colossal vermin are straying out of the desert to attack 81 An innocent man, about to be hanged, pleads for someone to
settlements. help him.
58 An evil tyrant outlaws nonofficially sanctioned magic use. 82. The tomb of a powerful wizard, filled with magic items, has
59 A huge dire wolf, apparently immune to magic, is organizing sunk into the swamp.
the wolves in the wood. 83. Someone is sabotaging wagons and carts to come apart when
60 A community of gnomes builds a flying ship. they travel at high speed.
61 An island at the center of the lake is actually the top of a 84 A certain kind of frogs, found only in an isolated valley, fall like
strange, submerged fortress, rain on a major city.
62 Buried below the Tree of the World lies the Master Clock of 85. A jealous rival threatens to stop a well-attended wedding.
Time. 86 Awoman who mysteriously vanished years ago is seen walking
63 A child wanders into a vast necropolis, and dusk approaches on the surface of a lake.
quickly. 87. An earthquake uncovers a previously unknown dungeon.
64 All the dwarves in an underground city have disappeared. 88 A wronged half-elf needs a champion to fight for her in a
65. A strange green smoke billows out of a cave near a mysterious gladiatorial trial
ruin. 89. At the eye of the storm that tears across the land lies a floating
66 Mysterious groaning sounds come from a haunted wood at citadel,
night. 90 People grow suspicious of half-orc merchants peddling gold
67. Thieves steal a great treasure and flee into Mordenkainen's dragon parts in the market
mognificent mansion, 91. An absentminded wizard lets her rod of wonder fall into the
68 A sorcerer attempts to travel ethereally but disappears wrong hands.
completely in the process. 92 Undead shadows vex a large library, especially an old storeroom
69 A paladin's quest for atonement leads her to a troll lair too well long left undisturbed.
defended for her to tackle alone. 93 The door into an abandoned house in the middle of town tums
70 A kingdom known for its wizards prepares for war. ‘out to be a magic portal.
71 The high priest is an illusion, 94 Barge pirates make a deal with a covey of hags and exact a high
72 Anew noble seeks to clear a patch of wilderness of all toll to use the river.
monsters. 95 Two parts of a magic item are in the hands of bitter enemies;
73 Abulette is tearing apart viable farmland. the third piece is lost.
74 An infestation of stirges drives yuan-ti closer to civilized lands. 96 A flight of wyverns is preying upon sheep as well as shepherds.
75 Treants in the woods are threatened by a huge fire of 97 Evil clerics gather in secret to summon a monstrous god to the
mysterious origin. world.
76 Clerics who have resurrected a long-dead hero discover she's 98 A city faces a siege by a force of humans, duergar, and gnolls.
not what they thought. 99 A huge gemstone supposedly lies within a ruined monastery,
77 A sorrowful bard tells a tale of his imprisoned companions. 100 Lizardfolk riding dragon turtles sell their services as
78 Evil nobles create an adventurers’ guild to monitor and control mercenaries to the highest bidder.
adventurers,

79 Ahalfling caravan must traverse an ankheg-infested wilderness,

 
