 

PCs as Spectators: In this kind of bad adventure, NPCs
accomplish all the important tasks. There might be an interesting
story going on, bur it’s going on around the PCs, and they have
very little to do with it_As much as you might like one of your
NPCs, resist the urge to have him or her accomplish everything |
instead of letting the PCs do the work. As great as it might be to,

have your big NPC hero fight the evil wizard (also an NPC)\
\threatening the land, it's not much fun for the players if all they,
iget.to do is watch. }
Deus ex Machina: Similarto the “PCs as spectators” problem is,
ithe potential pitfall of the deus ex machina, a term used to describe |
ithe ending to a story in which the action is resolved by the inter-
vention of some outside agency rather than by the characters’ own
actions. Dont put the PCs in situations in which they can only sur-
vive through the intervention of others. Sometimes it's interesting
to be rescued, but using this sort of “escape hatch” gets frustrating
forthe players quickly, Players would rather defeat a young dragon.
,on.their own than face an ancient wyrm and only defeat it because,
jahigh-level NPC teleports in to help them. ell

Preempting the Characters’ Abilities: It's good to know the,
PCs’ capabilities, but you shouldnt design adventures that contin- |
ually countermand or foil what they can do, If the wizard just
learned fireball, dont continually throw fire-resistant foes at him.
Dont create dungeons where fly and teleport spells don't work, just
because it's more difficult to design challenging encounters for
characters with those capabilities. Use the PCs’ abilities to allow

\them to have more interesting encounters—dont arbitrarily rule
(that their powers suddenly don't work.

THE FLOW OF INFORMATION
(Much of the structure of an adventure depends on what the PCs
(know and when they learn it, If they know that.there's a dragon at
ithe bottom of the dungeon, they will conserve their strength for
ithar encounter and have proper spells and strategies prepared.
When they learn the identity of a traitor, they.will probably act on.
this information immediately. If they learn too late that their ac-
tions will cause.a cavern complex to collapse, they wont be able to
keep it fram hsppening. |
Dont give away the whole plot in one go, but do give the play-}
ers some new bit of knowledge every so often. For example, ifthe |
drow elves are the secret masters behind an uprising of giants...
slowly reveal clues to that fact. Information gained while fighting
the hill giants leads the PCs to the frost giants, which in turn gar-
ners them clues thar take them to the fire giants. Only among the

 

fire giants do the PCs encounter information that leads them.to.
understand that the drow are involved. And thus the final en-|
counter with those drow masters is made all the more dramatic,
In.some situations, the PCs know everything they need to,
[know before the adventure begins, That's okay. Occasionally, there
lis no mystery. For example, the adventurers learn that a haunted
‘tower in the woods is inhabited by a vampire and her minions.
They go in with stakes and holy water, slay a bunch of undead, and
finally meet up with the vampire and take her out. That's a fine,
jadventure. Sometimes, however, a surprise that the PCs never,
could have seen coming makes it all the more interesting—the}
vampire turns outto bea good-aligned undead resisting her blood-
lust but slowly succumbing to the tempration of an.erinyes devil
who lives under the church back in town. Both the “no surprises” ,
and the “unexpected twist" structures work well, so long as you
avoid overusing either.

Divination Magic

Keep divination magic. in mind when predetermining how

4you're going to control the flow of information. Don't deny the
spells their potency. Instead, learn what they can.and cannot.do,
and plan for the PCs to use them, (See Handling Divinations,,
page 34), Afterall, if you have assumed that they would cast the
proper spells and they don't use what's available to them, they
deserve to fail,

The Tomb of Horrors, the Temple of Elemental Evil, the Ghost,
Tower of Inverness-—these are places of legend, mystery, and ad-|
venture. If you create. an adventure based around some place—aj
dungeon, a ruin, amountain, a valley, acave complex, awilderness,,
a town—then you have created a site-based adventure. Site-based

adventures revolve around a map with a key, detailing important

spots on that map, Encounters in the adventure are.triggered.

when the PCs enter a new location at the site, The implication is

that each encounter describes what occurs at that site when the

PCs arrive (or arrive for the first time),

Creating a site-based adventure involves two steps: drawing a
map and keying the encounters.

Draw a Map: Graph paperis useful for mapping out dungeons,
because.you can assign.a scale for the squares, such as 5 feet or 10
feet per square. The printed gridlines also aid in drawing straight
lines (particularly useful when you're mapping the interior of a

     

ADVENTURE WRITER'S CHECKLIST

\f you want to write an adventure but aren't sure where to start, just
work your way down the checklist below. Each entry corresponds to a
section found later in this chapter.

Brainstorm one or more motivations for the adventure, keeping in
mind the style of play you prefer. Why will the PCs put their lives at risk?
Decide whether you want a site-based adventure, an event-based
adventure, or an adventure that incorporates both.

If it’s a site-based adventure, imagine where the adventure will take
place. You don't need to know every detail yet, just a broad sense of
what the place is like,

If it's an event-based adventure, imagine the starting scene, a likely
climax scene, and a few “set piece” intermediate scenes you think
would be fun.

Choose the most important antagonists for the PCs. if allies,
patrons, or other NPCs are important, think about them too,

Begin assembling your adventure. If it’s a site-based adventure,
sketch out the site and decide where your important NPCs spend
most of their time. Ifit’s an event-based adventure, identify the most

likely sequences of events that take the PCs from the beginning
‘scene to the climax, hitting one or more of the important intermedi-
ate scenes along the way.

Fill in the details. Create the areas and scenes that aren't integral to
the adventure but may be fun or challenging nonetheless. Draw the
maps you'll need, build the NPCs, and create any random encoun-
ters you want for the adventure.

Check your work. Examine what you've done, but think like your play-
ers. Is there a clever way to bypass many of the adventure's chal-
lenges? Think of ways to reward cleverness without rendering the
adventure obsolete.

Now that you've worked your way down the checklist, here's a secret:
You don't have to do the items in order. You can just as easily start by
saying, “I want to write an adventure with mind flayer assassins as the
main villains,” starting with the antagonists and making the other
choices later. You might design a site first, then figure out how to entice
the characters inside. But it's always a good idea to start with motiva-
tion, because it’s the energy that gets your adventure off the ground

 
