building or a dungeon). Mark important areas with numbers or
letters that reference the map key, Make notes on the map describ-
ing anything of importance, including room contents (statues,
pools, furniture, pillars, steps, pits, curtains, and so on), Plan out
which areas are linked by.similar orallied inhabitants, Place traps,
taking care to note particularly the location of trap triggers. Con-,
sider spell ranges—ifan NPC wizard is ina particular area and you}
iknow thar she might cast.a particular spell, save yourself time
(during the playing of the adventure by noting now how far the)
spell effect.can extend.

As you map out the site, think. about how youll depict each area
at.the gaming table. It’s a bad idea, for example, to design a site
with many areas that are larger than the grid you place your minia-
tures on. If it’s likely that characters will travel back and forth
between two adjacent.rooms, make each of the rooms small
enough to fit both of them on the tabletop grid at the same time.

Remember that the player characters are catalysts for change.

While you play, note changes caused by the PCs’ presence—pos-|
\siblyeven writing them directly on the map. That way it's easier.to|
\remember, on the second time they pass through an area, which,
doors they have knocked down, which traps they have triggered,
which treasures they have looted, which guardians they have
defeated, and so forth.

Create a Key: A map key is a set of notes (as detailed or brief as
you need them to be) detailing each area’s contents, NPCs
(description, statistics, possible actions), and whatever else makes

ithe place special. For example, on an outdoor map you might mark
lan area that triggers a landslide if crossed, a bridge over the river
(guarded by lizardfolk, and the Jair of a basilisk—complete with
details about the interior of the lair and the treasure formerly in
ithe possession of the half-eaten, petrified victims in the back.
.Each entry should include the game information needed to run
,that encounter, If an area has nothing to write about, dont bother
marking it on the key.

Most dungeon adventures are site-based. See The Dungeon,
page 57,.as.well as the sample dungeon adventure that begins on
page.78,_

A site-based adventure allows the PCs to drive the action. If,
they come to a fork in the path, they're free to choose whichever}
way they want. It doesnt matter which path they choose, or if they |
never go down one path at all. The characters can leave the loca-,
tion and come back, often resuming the adventure exactly where
they left off (although some aspects of the site may have changed,
depending on how static the site is, see below),

A site-based adventure is easy.to run once you've made all the
preparations. Alll the information is right there in front of you, on
the map and in the key. Between the two of them, you should be

sable to handle any sort of action the PCs may take during the
ladventure.

Site-based adventures often lure PCs based simply on the repu-

.tation of the site, but sometimes an_event triggers a site-based
adyenture, drawing the PCs to the location. Once they are at the
site, your map and its. key come into play.

STATIC OR DYNAMIC

Sometimes a site-based adventure. takes place at a static location.
‘The map depicts an old ruin filled with monsters, shows where
the ancient treasures are located within the ruin, where the traps
or danger spots are located, and so on. The PCs can arrive at this
location at any time, stay.as long as they desire, leave whenever
\they sant, and come back Jater to find the site pretty much the
\same_as they left it (although more monsters may have taken up.
\residence, ora few may have wandered off; maybe a trap has been
{triggered by a monster and no longer threatens the PCs, or a trap
the PCs previously triggered has been reset),

Designing a static site-based adventure is fairly easy. You don't)
haye.to. think much about how the residents of the various en-|

counter.areas interact, and each encounter area need only be de-)
signed with the most immediate implications in mind—namely,|
what happens when the PCs arrive?

By-contrast, a good example of a dynamic site is a drow formmess-|

,temple. A dynamic site usually involves some sort of intelligent

organization, As the PCs move around the site, they discover that

sactions in certain areas affect encounters in other areas. For

example, if the PCs kill nwo of the drow priestesses in the fortress-
temple but allow athird one to escape, the fortress-temple mobi-,

-lizes its populace—now, defenders are moving around from loca-,

tion to location and are much more likely to attack any unknown.
intruders rather than ask questions. Perhaps the two dead priest-
esses rise from the dead as vampires and start creating vampire
spawn as bodyguards,

Designing a dynamic site is more complicated than designing a,
static one. In addition to creating a map and a key—both of which
might be updated significantly as the adventure develops—you
umust address the following issues as well.

\+ Formulate defensive plans for the inhabitants. “If attacked, the,
guards use the gong to raise the alarm, The sound of the gong
can be heard in areas A, B, and D. The inhabitants in those areas.
hastily don hide armor (5 rounds) and_overturn tables to give,
themselves cover. The sorcerer in area B casts mass invisibility on.
himself and the barbarian.”

Develop conditional requirements for various areas. “If anyone
disturbs. the three.unholy gems upon the altar,.the Infernal
Gates in area $ open, allowing access to the City of Dis but also
calling 3d4 barbazu devils, who live in the dungeon by day and
come out at night to. raid the countryside in.a S-mile radius.”
Determine the inhabitants’ long-term plans. “Ina month’ time,
the goblins will have completed the wall in area 39. With that
defense to fall back on, they begin the assault on the kobold
caves in areas 32 through 37, If no one intervenes,.the goblins,
will clear out the kobolds in three weeks and the goblin adept
will gain the wand of lightning bolt stored in the secret. vault in.
area 35."

The death of the king. The Rain of Colorless Fire. The carnival's
arrival in town. Unexplained disappearances. Merchants of Druus
looking for caravan guards, Events can lead to adventures, drawing
the PCs in and getting them involved in amazing predicaments,

When you create an.an event-based adventure, you structure it
in the form of “Something happens, and if the PCs do this, then
that happens..." An event-based adventure is built around a series
of events influenced by the PCs' actions. The PCs' reactions
change the events that occur, or the order in which they occur, or
both.

Inan event-based adventure, the PCs usually have a goal or a
mission beyond “Kill all the monsters” or “Get as much treasure as
possible” or even “Explore this.area.” The adventure instead
focuses.on.the adventurers trying to.accomplish something spe-
cific. The encounters in.the adventure occur as an offshoot of that
efforr—either as a consequence of their actions, or as opposing
forces attempting to stop them, or both.

This kind of adventure is often described as story-based,,
because it's more like a book or a movie and less like exploration of ,
a passive site. An event-based adventure usually doesn't use a}
room-by-room key.of a location but instead consists.of notes.on,

. which events occur when, Two of the best ways.to.organize these}

notes are in the form ofa flowchart ora timeline, __
Flowchart: By drawing connected boxes or circles with event _

 

idescriptions in them, it's easy to visually track the flow of events:
\"As.the PCs investigate the murder, they question the innkeeper,
\She tells them that she saw someone suspicious hanging around

the back of the livery last night. If they ask specifically about Greg-

 
