 

Easy: The PCs win handily with little threat to. themselves, The
Encounter Level for the encounter is lower than. the party level.
The group should be able to handle an almost limitless number of
these encounters.

Easy if Handled Properly: There's a trick to this kind of encoun: |
ter—a trick the PCs must discover to havea good chance of vie-

tory, Find and eliminate the evil cleric with greater invisibility first
{so she stops bolstering the undead, and everything else about the |
lencounter becomes much easier, If nor handled properly, this)
(kind of encounter becomes challenging or even very difficult.
Challenging: Most encounters seriously threaten at least one
member of the group in some way. These are challenging encoun-
ters, about equal in Encounter Level to the party level. The average
adventuring group should be able to handle four challenging en-
counters before they run low on spells, hit points, and other re-
sources, If an encounter doesn't cost the PCs some significant por-
ition of their resources, it's not challenging.

Very Difficult; One PC might very well die. The Encounter Level |
jis higher than the party level. This sort of encounter may be more}
\dangerous than an overpowering one, because it's not immedi-,

ately obvious to the players that the PCs should flee.

Overpowering: The PCs should run. If they don't, they will
almost certainly lose, The Encounter Level is five or more levels
higher than the party level.

 

Difficulty Factors
{You have several options for making an encounter more or less dif
[ficult by changing the circumstances of the encounter to account
|for some feature of the PCs’ surroundings or the makeup of the
)party. For instance:
ie Tight quarters make things more difficult for rogues, since it's
\__harder to skulk about and gain a sneak attack.
,+_A spread-out force makes things more difficult for spellcasters,
since the area affected by most spells is small.
Many lesser foes are harder for a character.to engage in melee
than one powerful foe.
Undead are much more difficult to fight without a cleric,
Encounters involving animals or plants are much more difficult
without a druid or a ranger in the party.
Encounters involving evil outsiders are much more difficult
without a paladin or cleric (and perhaps a wizard or sorcerer) in,
the party.
A large force is much more difficult to fight without a wizard or
sorcerer in the party,
+ Locked doors and traps are much more difficult. to overcome
without a.rogue in the party.
Multiple combat encounters are more difficult to win without
fighter, a barbarian, a ranger, or a paladin in the party.
Multiple combat encounters are more difficult to survive with-
outa cleric in the party,
The bard and the cleric make good group support characters.
Their presence makes practically every encounter easier.
None of the above factors should necessarily be taken into
account when assigning or modifying Challenge Ratings, but you
should keep them in mind when designing encounters.

TOUGHER MONSTERS
A really big basilisk with more hit points and a higher attack
bonus than a normal basilisk is a greater challenge, If you use the
‘rules found in the Monster Manual for increasing the Hit Dice of
monsters, you should also increase the experience point (XP)
jaward for the monster appropriately, See Advanced Monster Chal-
jlenge Rating, page 293 of the Monster Manual
|Ifa monster has levels in PC or NPC classes, see Monsters and
iClass Levels, page 290 of the Monster Manual, for how to determine
its CR. =

LOCATION
A fight between characters perched on a bridge made of skulls
over a pool of bubbling lava is more exciting and more dangerous |
than that same fight ina nice, safe dungeon room. Location serves.
inwo purposes, both equally. important. It can make a humdrum en-
{counter more interesting, and it can make an encounter easier or
jmuch more difficult,

Making Things Interesting

_Arguably, the dungeon itself is a fairly exotic locale, but eventually.
the same old 30-foor-by-30-foot room starts to grow stale. Like-}
wise, a trip through the dark woods can be interesting and fright-
ening, but the tenth trip through is less so. Since this is a fantasy
game, allow yourself the freedom to consider all sorts of strange.
locations for encounters. Imagine an encounter inside a volcano,,
along a narrow ledge on the side of a cliff, atop a.flying whale, or
deep underwater, Think of the exciting location first.and then

|worry about how and why the PCs would get there.

Situations within a location can have as much impact as the
Jocation itself. If a rogue has to pick the lock on the only door out
of the top room of a tower that's collapsing, it’s suddenly a much
more exciting situation than just another locked door in.a.dun-
geon corridor, Create an encounter in which the PCs must be
diplomatic while all around them a bartle rages, Fill an under
ground cave complex with water for a different sort of dungeon
adventure. Set a series of encounters in a large wooden fort—that
happens to be on fire.

See the Interesting Combats section, page 17, fora short discus-}
sion that deals with this same issue.

Modifying Difficulty j
Orcs with crossbows, behind cover, firing down at the PCs while
the characters cross a.narrow ledge over a pit full of spikes are.
much more dangerous than the same orcs being engaged in hand-
to-hand combat in some tunnel. Likewise, if the PCs find them
selves on a balcony, locking down at oblivious orcs who are carry-
ing barrels of flammable oil, the encounter is likely to be much
easier than if the ores were aware of the PCs.

Consider the sorts of factors, related to locarion or situation,
that make an encounter more difficult, such as the following,
* Enemy has cover (for example, behind a low wall

Enemy is at higher elevation or is hard to get at (on a ledge or

atop a defensible wall),

Enemy has guaranteed surprise (PCs are asleep).

Conditions make it difficult to see or hear (mist, darkness,

rumbling machinery all around).

Conditions make movement difficult (underwater, heavy grav-

ity, very_narrow passage).

Conditions require delicate maneuvering (climbing down a

sheer cliff, hanging from the ceiling).

Conditions deal damage (in the icy cold, in a burning building,

overa pit of acid),

Conversely, the first three conditions given above make

encounters easier from the PCs’ point of view if they are the ones

benefiting from the cover, elevation, or surprise.

REWARDS AND BEHAVIOR
Encounters, either individually or strung together, reward certain
types of behavior whether you are conscious of it or not. Encoun-
ters that can or must be won by killing the opponents reward
aggression and fighting prowess. If you set up your encounters}
like this, expect wizards and priests to soon go into every adven-/
ture with only combat spells prepared. The PCs will learn to use|
utactics to find the best way to kill the enemy quickly. By contrast,
jencounters that can be won by diplomacy encourage the PCs to
talk to everyone and everything they meet. Encounters that
reward subterfuge and prowling encourage sneakiness. Encoun-
