ters that reward boldness speed up the game, while those that
reward caution slow it down.

Always be aware of the sorts of actions you're rewarding your
players for taking. Reward, in this case, doesn't just mean expe-
rience points and treasure, More generally, it means anything.
that consistently leads to success. An adventure should contain,
encounters that reward different types of behavior. Not every-|

\one prefers the same kind of encounter, and even those with a
[favorite enjoy a change of pace. Remember, then, that you can)
offer many_different kinds of encounters, including all of the)
following.

Combat: Combat encounters can be divided into two groups:
attack and defense. Typically, the PCs are. on the attack, invading
monsters’ lairs and exploring dungeons. A defense encounter, in
which the PCs must keep an area, an object, or a person safe from
the enemy, can be a nice change of pace.

Negotiation: Although threats can often be involved, a negoti-

jation encounter involves less swordplay and more wordplay. Con-|
vincing NPCs to. do what the PCs want them to is challenging for,
both players and DM—quick thinking and good roleplaying are
the keys here. Dont be afraid to play an NPC appropriately (stupid
or intelligent, generous or selfish), as long as it fits. But don't make
an NPC so predictable that the PCs can always tell exactly what he
or she will do in any given circumstance. Consistent, yes; one
dimensional, no,

Environmental: Weather, earthquakes, landslides, fast-
moving tivers, and fires are just some of the environmental condi-
tions that can challenge even mid- to high-level PCs,

Problem-Solving: Mysteries, puzzles, riddles, or anything that
requires the players to use logic and reason to try.to. overcome the
challenge counts as a problem-solving encounter.

Judgment Calls: “Do we help the prisoner here in the dun-
geon, even though it might be a trap?” Rather than depending
on logic, these encounters usually involve inclination and gut
instinct,

Investigation: This is a long-term sort of encounter involving
some negotiation and some problem-solving. An investigation
may be called for to solve a mystery or to learn something new.,

What adventure would be complete without treasure?

A close second in importance.to experience points, treasure
provides an important motivator for PCs to go on adventures, As
with experience points, treasure empowers the PCs, The more
they get, the more powerful they become.

MONSTERS WITH TREASURE.

{The standard way to acquire treasure is to defeat enemies that pos-
(sess it, guard it, or happen to be near it. In the Monster Manual, ev-
ery monster has a treasure rating (indicating how much treasure it
has, although for some creatures the rating is “None”). The tables
found in this section enable you to determine the specifics. After
referencing the level and kind of treasure (coins, goods, items)
found in the creature's description, roll on the appropriate row and
columns of the proper rable,

When generating an encounter dealing with monsters away
from their lair (a parol, a wandering creature, and so on), remem-
ber that a creature only takes what it can easily carry with it In the
case of a creature such asa displacer beast, that generally means
nothing. The monster safeguards or hides its treasure.as well as it
can, but it leaves it behind when outside the lair.

Example: Gnolls that live in a dungeon often leave their lair to
wage war.on nearby orc brigands to steal treasure and food, The.
PCs encounter and defeat the gnolls while the bestial
humanoids are on their way to raid the ores. Each gnoll has.a.
smattering of coins or gems on its person. The leader has the

masterwork greatsword from the group's hoard and uses it in the

battle, The majority of the gnolls’ treasure, however, remains in |
their lair, guarded by a few gnolls left behind and two well-con-,
cealed pit traps.

Monsters with Classes
\Many monsters advance by adding class levels (see the Monster
Manual). To determine treasure for monsters with class levels, first.

give them equipment, Use Table 4-23: NPC Gear Value (page 127).
and use just their class levels to determine the value of thei equip-,

ment. Then generate their treasure according to theit monster
entry and the rules under Building a Treasure, below. This may.
generate more items that the monster can use, and that’s fine (see
Custom Treasures, below),

 

Treasure per Encounter

Table 3-5: Treasure has been created so that if PCs face enough
{encounters of their own level to gain a level, they will have also
\gained enough treasure to keep them apace with the wealth-by-
evel information found in Table s—1: Character Wealth by Level
(page 135). Just as gaining a level requires between thirteen and
fourteen encounters of a party's level, so. too fourteen average rolls
on the table at the party's level will get them the treasure they
need to gain the appropriate amount for the next highest level,
assuming that the PCs expend some resources such as potions and
scrolls during those encounters.

TABLE 3-3; TREASURE VALUES PER ENCOUNTER

Encounter Treasure Encounter Treasure
Level per Encounter Level per Encounter

1 300 gp n 7500gp
2 600 gp. 12 9,800 gp
3 900 gp 3 13,000 gp
4 1,200 gp 14 17,000 gp
5 1,600 gp Ss 22,000 gp
6 2,000 gp 16 28,000 gp
7 2,600 gp 7 36,000 gp
8 3,400 gp 18 47,000 gp
9 4,500 gp 19 61,000 gp
10 5,800 gp 20 80,000 gp

On average, the PCs should earn one treasure suitable to their
level for each encounter they overcome. The key, of course, is
“average.” Some monsters might have less treasure than ayerage,
some might have mote, and some might have none at all. As you
write an adventure, it's okay to combine the individual treasures
listed foreach monster into one larger hoard. If a dungeon is
home toa beholder and numerous bugbears, for example, you can
take some or all of the bughear treasure and add it to the
beholder'’s hoard.

Monitor.the progress of treasure. into the hands of the PCs. For
instance, you may want to use lots of high-treasure or low-treasure
monsters, yet still hand outa normal amount of treasure overall.
The PCs needn't have average treasure at every stage in their
careers, but if an imbalance (either high or low) persists for more.
than a few levels, you should take gradual action to correct it by
awarding slightly more or slightly less treasure,

Taste 3—4; AVERAGE TREASURE RESULTS

Type Average Result }
Gem 275 gp

Art object. 1,100 gp

Mundane item 350 gp

Minor magic item. 1,000 gp.

Medium magic item 10,000 gp
| Major magic. item. 40,000 gp

 
