, 9

Most campaigns need a blend of episodic andcontinuing UPDATE PC INFORMATION

adventures to be successful and fun. To get the best of both worlds, Bring your notes on the PCs up to date, recording such accom-;
it's possible to string together a number of unrelated episodic plishments as new. magic items gained, new levels earned, ene-}
adventures with hints of a continuing plot in the background that mies.they have.angered, friends they have made, and anything,
eventually comes to fruition. For example, as the PCs progress, _|else that’s pertinent. The amount and derail of this information
from dungeon to dungeon and ruin to ruin,they hear rumorsand, _{will vary depending on. whether the adventure just concluded was
find clues that some subterranean race is preparing to launch a} _jepisodic (featuring characters and challenges the PCs are not
(strike against the surface world. Perhaps, as they delve into dun-| likely to encounter again) or continuing (featuring characters and.
[geons, they learn that some of the monsters they face work forthe}, challenges that may be recurring or may lead to other, related,
\masterminds, whom they eventually discaver to be the mind flay-| _,characters and challenges).
ers. Finally, the mind flayers make their move, and the PCs are
there.to stop it. Thus, a series of unrelated adventures suddenly UPDATE YOUR RECORDS
feels like a coherent whole. This is the first step in refining the art If you and your players just finished an episodic adventure, you
known as plot weaving. may not need to spend a lot of time on this.task, since little if any,
of what.the PCs have just gone through will have any bearing on
PLOT WEAVING the future events of the campaign.
Plot weaving is what.a DM does when he or she runs multiple __If the PCs have just concluded a part of a continuing adventure,
.adventures at the same time. For example: In one adventure, the}. _jyour records need to be more thorough. Be sure your notes on.
lidentity ofa murderer leads the PCs into conflict with a powerful, _{what happened in the adventure are accurate and sufficiently ,
assassins’ guild. In the second adventure, the PCs seek a magic, _|complete. Record new NPCs encountered, significant monsters
staff rumored to be in the hands of a troglodyte priest. Here's one. defeated, secrets learned, magic. discovered,and so forth.
way these adventures can be interwoven. In either case, make notes about opportunities for further ad-
1. The PCs, in town seeking the magic staff, witness a murder. _ ventures based on what has happened in the one just concluded.
When they look into it, they discover the culprit and track him Rememberwhatthe players seemed to like and dislike, so you.can
down. He fights to the death, and on his body they discover a mys- tailor furure adventures accordingly.

terious tattoo,
2. They learn that the staff of healing they seek was stolen by
(troglodytes years ago.

3, While they attempt to learn more about the troglodytes and Dungeons are deep, dark pits filled with subterranean horrors and |
their lair, an assassin with the same mysterious tattoo attacks the PCs, lost, ancient treasures. Dungeons are labyrinths where evil villains.

4. They head to the caves where the troglodytes live. They and carnivorous beasts hide from the light, waiting for a.rime.to.
encounter heavy resistance and withdraw. strike out into the sunlit lands of good. Dungeons contain pits of|

$, Returning to town again, the PCs find themselves under sur- seething acid and magic traps that blast intruders with fire, as well
yeillance and eventually attack from the guild. as dragons guarding their hoards and magic artifacts waiting to be

6, They. go back to the caves and obrain the staff. discovered.

7. They return to town and, after learning the location.of the In short, dungeons mean adventure.

assassins’ guild, confront the assassins directly.

Plot weaving can make your campaign seem less likeaseries of, THE DUNGEON AS ADVENTURE SETTING

adventures and more like .... well, like real life. This intermingling, The term “dungeon” is a loose one. A.dungeon is usually under-
of adventures can be difficult to manage, however, and once you. _ ground, but an aboveground site can be a dungeon as well. Some
begin to weave more than two or three plots together, players may, DMs apply the term.to virtually any adventure site. For this dis-
feel somewhat dissatisfied with the number of loose ends that cussion, a dungeon is.an enclosed, defined space made up of
always seem to be left behind relating to one adventure while they encounter areas connected in some fashion.

find their. characters.embroiled in another. Some players don't The most common.form of dungeon is an underground com-
want plots to be interwoven. They prefer to stick with one goal if plex built by intelligent creatures for some purpose. Physically,
possible and dont start anything new until they feel they have such a place has rooms joined by corridors, stairs connecting it
achieved closure on what is before them. In the above example, with the surface, and doors and traps to keep out intruders. The
.the PCs might ignore the troglodytes and the staff until they have archetypal dungeon is abandoned, with creatures other than the
decisively dealt with the assassins. Ultimately, a good DM runs the builders now occupying areas within it, Adventurers explore such
jadventures thar players want to play by paying attention to the places with the hope of finding treasure either left behind by the
way they want to play. original inhabitants or in the hoards of such squatters.

TYPES OF DUNGEONS

The four basic dungeon types are defined by their current status,

When an adventure.comes to an end, you should always handle a Many_dungeons are variations.on these basic types or.combina-
few tasks before proceeding to the next one. tions of more than one of them. Sometimes old dungeons are used
a again and again by different inhabitants for different purposes,
AWARD EXPERIENCE POINTS = Ruined Structure: Once occupied, this place is nowaban-,
Even if you award experience points at the end of each game ses- doned (completely or in part) by its original creator or creators.)
sion, another XP award is called for at the end of the adventure— and other creatures haye wandered in. Many subterranean.crea-|
which, presumably, is also the end of the current game session. At tures look for abandoned underground constructions in. whichto}
ithe least, this will be an.award commensurate with what the PCs make. their lairs. Any traps that might exist have probably been set|
\accomplished to successfully resolve the adventure. It may also off, but wandering beasts might very well be common. 5
Linclude story awards (see page 40). Ifa character earns enough XP Areas within the ruined structure usually contain clues to their
to attain anew level, work with that player (either before the game original intended use, What is now the lair of a family of rust mon-

session breaks up or before the next adventure begins) to modify|. _|sters might once have been an old barracks, the rotting remains of
his or her character sheet properly. | "the beds and other furnishings now arranged to make nests for the

 
