 

creatures. An ancient throne. room, adorned with the tatters of
once-beautiful tapestries, might be empty and quiet—the ancient
curse thar struck down the queen still hanging in the air before
the verdigris-encrusted bronze throne.

A ruined structure dungeon is a place that cries out to be ex-
plored. Adventurers might hear tales of treasure still lingering in
the abandoned labyrinth, leading them to brave the dangers to un-
cover it. This is the simplest and most straightforward of the dun-
‘geon types, and it usually balances danger (the inhabitants) with
reward (the treasure). The creatures dwelling in a ruined structure.
arent necessarily organized, so PCs can usually come and go as
they. please, making it easy to start and stop an adventure.

Occupied Structure: This type of dungeon is still in use. Cr
tures (usually intelligent) live there, although they may not be the
dungeons creators. An occupied structure might be a home, a for
tress, a temple, an active mine, a prison, or a headquarters. This
type of dungeon is less likely to have traps or wandering beasts,
and more likely to have organized guards—both on watch and on |

}patrol. Traps or wandering beasts that might be encountered are}
usually under the control of the occupants. Occupied structures ,
have furnishings to suit the inhabitants, as well as decorations,

supplies, and the ability for occupants to move around (doors they

can open, hallways large enough for them to pass through, and so

on), The inhabitants might have a communication system, and

they almost certainly control an access to the outside.

Some dungeons are partially occupied and partially empty or
in ruins. In such cases, the occupants are typically not the origi-
nal builders bur instead a group of intelligent creatures that
have set up their base, lair, or fortification within an abandoned
dungeon.

Use an occupied structure dungeon for the lair of a goblin tribe,
a.secret underground fortress, or an occupied castle, This is one of
the most challenging types of dungeons for adventurers to enter
and explore, if the occupants are hostile, The challenge comes
from the organized nature of the inhabitants. Ir'salways harder to
fight a foe on his own terms in an area he knows well and is pre
pared to defend.

Safe Storage: When people want to protect something, they
might bury it underground, Whether the item they want to pro-
tect is a fabulous treasure, a forbidden artifact, or the dead body of
an important figure, these valuable objects are placed within a
dungeon and surrounded by barriers, traps, and guardians.

 

 

 

 

The safe storage type of dungeon is the most likely to have traps
but.the least likely to have wandering beasts. The crypt of an_an-
cient lich may be filled with all manner of magic traps and guard-
ians, bur it's unlikely thar any subterranean monsters have moved.
in and made a part of the dungeon their lair—the traps and guard-
ians will have held them at bay. This type of dungeon normally is
built for function rather than appearance, but sometimes it has
ornamentation in the form of statuary or painted walls. This is par
ticularly true of the tombs of important people.

Sometimes, however, a vault or a crypt is constructed in sucha
way as to house living guardians. The problem with this strategy is
that something must be done to keep the creatures alive between
intrusion attempts, Magic is usually the best solution to provide
food and water for these creatures.

Even if there's no way anything living can survive in.a safe stor-
age dungeon, certain monsters can still serve as guard
Builders of vaults or tombs often place undead creature:
structs, both of which which have no need for sustenance or rest.

to guard their dungeons. Magic traps can attack intruders by sum:
imoning monsters into the dungeon. These guardians also need no
sustenance, since they appear only when they're needed and dis
appear when their task is done.

Natural Cayern Complex: Underground caves provide homes
for all sorts of subterranean monsters. Created naturally and con:
nected by a labyrinthine tunnel system, these caverns lack any
sort of pattern, order, or decoration, With no intelligent force
behind its construction, this type of dungeon is the least likely to
have traps or even doors

Fungi of all sorts thrive in caves, sometimes growing in huge,
forests of mushrooms and puffballs. Subterranean predators prowl,
these forests, looking for those feeding upon the fungi. Some vari-
eties of fungus give off a phosphorescent glow, providing a natural.
cavern complex with its own limited light source. In other areas, a
daylight spell or similar magical effect can provide enough light
for green plants to grow,

Often, a natural cavern complex connects with another type
of dungeons, the caves having been discovered when the manu
factured dungeon was delved. A cavern complex can connect
two otherwise unrelated dungeons, sometimes creating a
strange mixed environment. A natural cavern. complex joined
with another dungeon often provides a route by which subter.
ranean creatures find their way into.a.manufactured dungeon

 

 

ns

 

r.con-

 

 

 

 

eS

BEHIND THE CURTAIN: WHY DUNGEONS?
Dungeons facilitate game play. Being underground, they set apart the
“adventure” from the rest of the world in a clean way. The idea of walk
ing down a corridor, opening a door, and entering an encounter—while
& gross oversimplification and generalization of what can happen in a
dungeon—facilitates the flow of the game by reducing things down to
easily grasped and digestible concepts.

You have an easy way to control the adventure in a dungeon without
leading the characters by the nose. In a dungeon, the parameters are
clearly defined for the PCs—they can’t walk through walls (not at first
anyway) or go into rooms that aren't there. Aside from those limits,
they can go wherever they like in whatever order they like. The limited
environment of the dungeon grants players a feeling of control over
their characters’ destiny

A dungeon is really nothing but an adventure flowchart. The rooms
are encounters, and the corridors are connections between the
encounters, showing which encounters should (or could) follow
which other ones, You could design a dungeonlike flowchart for an
adventure that didn't take place in a dungeon and accomplish the
same thing. One encounter leads to two more, which in turn lead to
others, some of which double back on previous encounters. The

dungeon becomes a model, in this way, for all adventures

Academic analysis aside, dungeons are fun. Deep, dark under
ground places are mysterious and frightening. Dungeons have many
encounters crammed into one small space. Nothing is more exciting
than anticipating what's on the other side of the next door. Dungeons
offer many kinds of challenges—combat, tactics, navigation, overcom:
ing obstacles, traps, and more. They encourage players to pay close
attention to their environment, since everything in a dungeon is a
potential danger.

In the Dunctons & Deacons game, the classes, spells, magic items,
and many other facets of the game have been designed with
dungeons in mind. That’s not to say that the dungeon is the only
possible adventuring environment, but it is the default setting. Many
of the tasks that characters can do well, such as a rogue’s Open Lock
skill or an elf's ability to notice secret doors, are centered around
dungeon adventuring.

When in doubt while creating the setting for an adventure, use a
dungeon, However, despite opportunities for exploration and the

 

 

 

combat-intensive nature of dungeons, don't neglect to include chances
for PCs to interact with NPCs such as dwarf strike teams, other adven-
turing parties, or weird denizens that are happier to talk than to fight.

 
