and populate it. Rumors in some places speak of the Underdark, a
subterranean world that is one enormous natural cavern complex
running under the surface of entire continents
Natural cavern complexes can be quite beautiful, with stal

tites, stalagmites, flowstone, columns, and other limestone forma
tions, However, from.an.adventuring point of view they have aseri:
ous shortcoming: less treasure. Since the dungeon was not created
fora specific purpose, there's litle chance of happening upon.ase
cret room filled with gold left behind by the previous occupants.

Practically all dungeons have walls, floors, doors, and other kinds
of common features, Adventurers quickly learn what the common
features of a dungeon are:
vantage. Common features create consistency (which helps sus
pend disbelief) and allow you to create interesting surprises by
changing the features—sometimes only slightly. When the PCs.
entera dungeon, irs often useful to establish some conventions so.
that misunderstandings dont crop up later
Convention #1—Default Ele-
ments: Tell your players what the
floor is like, what the walls are
made of, and how high the ceilings
e. Say that you'll let them know if
any of these default elements
change. That helps them imagine
the dungeon, and it keeps you f
having to repeat yourself. If most of
the doors or tombs in your dungeon
are identical, you.can describe the first
one in detail and add,.“Unless 1 say oth
erwise, they're all like this one.
Convention #2—On the Grid, Each
Square Has One Feature: When you
draw something such as.a pool of shallow
water on your.map grid, any square that
more than half covered by the pool is con:
sidered to have water in it, but squares that
just have water in a small fraction of their
area are considered dry. Using this con:
vention means you don't have to create
straight-edged, unnatural-looking terrain fea:
tures by forcing them to conform to.a square grid that doesn't exist
in the game world
Convention #3—Establish Standard Procedures:
Once the characters fall into a predictable pattern when
confronted with some recurring kind of challenge such
as.a.closed door, it’s okay to assume thar the characters
do that every time. For example, if the rogue always
searches a door for traps, then makes a Listen check to
hear what's on the other side, then tries to pick the lock,
you can establish that as the standard procedure. This. \™
convention saves time because you dont have to wait for
players to declare their characters’ actions before calling |
for the checks, and it helps the players because they won't
accidentally overlook a step in their standard procedure.

WALLS
Sometimes, masonry. w. stones piled on cop of NV,
each other (usually but. not always held in place with_S
mortar)—divide dungeons into corridors and chambers...
Dungeon walls can also be hewn from solid rock, leaving
them with a rough, chiseled look. Or, dungeon walls can
be the smooth, unblemished stone of a naturally occur:
ring cave. Dungeon walls are difficult to brea
through, but they're generally easy to climb.

and you can use this fact to your ad:

 

 

   
 
  
 
  
 

 

om

 

 

 

Matoury wall

  
 

 

 

 

 

   

k down or

    

  
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
 

Masonry Walls: The most common kind of dungeon wall.
masonry walls are usually at least 1 foot thick. Often these ancient
walls sport cracks and crevices, and sometimes dangerous slimes
or small monsters live in these areas and wait for prey. Masonry,
swalls stop all bur the loudest noises. It takes a DC 20 Climb check
to travel along a masonry wall.

Superior Masonry Walls; Sometimes masonry walls are
better built (smoother, with tighter-fitting stones and less crack:
ing), and occasionally these superior
walls are covered with plaster or
stucco. Covered walls often bear
paintings, carved reliefs, or other
decoration. Superior masonry walls
are no.more difficult ro destroy than
regular masonry walls but are more dif
ficult to climb (DC 25

Hewn Stone Walls: Such walls usu:
ally result when 2 chamber ot passage is
junneled out from solid rock. The rough
surface of a hewn wall frequently pro-
vides minuscule ledges where fungus
grows and fissures where vermin, bats,
and subterranean snakes live. When such
a wall has an “other side” (it separates two.
chambers in the dungeon), the wall is usu:
ally ar least 3 feet thick; anything thinner.
risks collapsing from the weight of all the
stone overhead. It takes a DC 25 Climb,
check to climb a hewn stone wall.

Unworked Stone Walls: These
surfaces are uneven and rarely flat. a”

They are smooth to the touch but
filled with tiny holes, hidden alcoves, and ledges
at various heights. They're also usually wet or at least damp, since
it's water that most frequently creates natural caves. When such a
wail has an “other side,” the wall is usually at least 5 feet thick. It
takes a DC 15 Climb check to move along an unworked stone wall.

Special Walls: Sometimes you can place special walls in a dun-
geon. Expect players to react with curiosity and suspicion when
their characters encounter these unusual walls.
nforced Walls; These are masonry walls with iron bars on one
he wall, or placed within the wall to strengthen it
The hardness of a reinforced wall remains the same, but its hit
points.are doubled and the Strength check DC to break through it
is increased by 10.

Iron Walls: These walls are placed within dun
geons around important places such as vaults

Paper Walls: Paper swalls are the opposite of iron
walls, placed as screens to block line of sight but
nothing more.

Wooden Walls: Wooden walls often exist as recent
additions to older. dungeons, used to create animal
pens, storage bins, or just to make a number of smaller
rooms out of a larger one.

Magically Treated Walls: These walls are stronger than

average, with a grearer hardness, more hit points, and
Unworked.a higher break DC, Magic can usually double the
tone hardness and hit points and can add up to 20 t0 the
swall__break DC, A magically treated wall also gains a saving

throw against spells that could affect it, with the save
bonus equaling 2 + one-half the caster level of the magic
reinforcing the svall. Creating a magic wall requires the
Craft Wondrous Item feat and the expenditure of 1,500.
gp foreach 10 foot-by-10-foot wall section.

Walls with Arrow Slits: Walls with arrow slits can be
made. of any durable material but are most commonly
masonry, hewn stane, or wood. Such a wall allows

 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

V4

Hewn stone wall.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
