  

TasLe 3-9: WaLLS

‘Typical Break Hit Climb
Wall Type Thickness DC_Hardness_ Points! DC
Masonry Vit 35 8 hp 15
Superior masonry Lf. 35 8 9hp 20
Reinforced masonry 1 ft. 45 8 130hp 15
Hewn stone 3 ft. 50 8 S40hp 22
Unworked stone SR 65 8  900hp 20
Lron 3in 30 10 hp 25
, Paper Paperthin 1 Thp 30
Wood 6 in. 20 5 hp 21
| Magically treated? = +20 2 va —

1Per.10-foot-by-10-foot section.
2 These modifiers can be applied to any of the other wall types.
3 Or an additional $0 hit points, whichever is greater.

defenders to fire arrows or crossbow bolts at intruders from
,behind the safety of the wall. Archers behind arrow slits
have improved cover that gives them a +8 bonus to
|Anmor Class, a +4 bonus on Reflex saves, and the
benefits of the improved evasion class feature

Floors
As with walls, dungeon floors come in many
types.

Flagstone: Like masonry walls, flagstone
floors are made of fitted stones, They are usually
\cracked and only somewhat level. Slime and mold

grows in these cracks, Sometimes water runs in
rivulets between the stones or sits in stagnant pud-
dles. Flagstone is the most common dungeon floor.

Uneven Flagstone: Over time, some floors can
,become so uneven that a DC 10 Balance check is
{required to run or charge across the surface. Failure

means the character can't move in this round,
Floors as treacherous as this should be the excep-
tion, not the rule.

Hewn Stone Floors: Rough and uneven, hewn
floors are usually covered with loose stones,
gravel, dirt, or other debris, A DC 10 Balance check is required to
tun or charge across such a floor. Failure means the character can.
still act, but cant run or charge in this round.

Light Rubble: Small chunks of debris litter the ground. Light
rubble adds 2 to. the DC of Balance and Tumble checks.

Dense Rubble: The ground is covered with debris of all sizes. Ir
costs 2 squares of movement to enter a square with dense rubble.
Dense rubble adds 5 to the DC of Balance and Tumble checks, and

-itadds 2 to. the DC of Move Silently checks.

Smooth Stone Floors: Finished and sometimes even polished,
{smooth floors are found only in dungeons with capable and care-
(ful builders. (They are a hallmark of dwarf-delved dungeons.)

Sometimes mosaics are setin the floor, some depicting interesting
images and others just smooth marble.

Natural Stone Floors: The floor of a natural cave is as uneven
as the walls. Caves rarely have flat surfaces of any great size.
Rather, their floors have many levels, Some adjacent floor surfaces
might vary in elevation by only a foot, so that moving from one to

 

neces
WALLS, DOORS, AND DETECT SPELLS

Stone walls, iron walls, and iron doors are usually thick enough to
block most detect spells, such as detect thoughts. Wooden walls,
wooden doors, and stone doors are usually not thick enough to do so.
However, a secret stone door built into a wall and as thick as the wall
itself (at least 1 foot) does block most detect spells.

    
   
   
 
 
  

Reinforced wall

the other is no more difficult than negotiating a stair step, but in
other places the floor might suddenly drop off or rise up several |
feet or more, requiring Climb checks to get from one surface.to|
the other. Unless a path has been worn and well marked in the|
floor of a natural cave, it takes 2 squares of movement to enter a
square with a natural stone floor, and the DC of Balance and
(Tumble checks increases by 5. Running and charging are impos
sible, except along paths.

Special Floors: A number of strange floorings and floor fea-
tures exist to make a dungeon more interesting.

Slippery: Water, ice, slime, or blood can make any of the dun-|
geon floors described in this section more tmeacherous, Slippery.
floors increase the DC of Balance and Tumble checks by 5.

Grate: A grate often covers a pit or an area lower than the main
floor. Grates are.usually made from iron, but large ones.can.also be
made from iron-bound timbers, Many grates have hinges to allow

access to what lies below (such grates can be locked like any

door), while others are permanent and designed not to
move. A typical 1-inch-thick iron grate has 25 hit points,
) hardness 10,and.a DC of 27 for Strength checks to break
~~ through it or tear it loose.
Ledge: Ledges allow crearures to walk above some lower

area. They often circle around pits, run along under-
Z, ground streams, form balconies around large rooms, or
provide a place for archers to stand while firing upon
enemies below. Narrow ledges (12 inches wide ar less)
. Tequire those moving along them to make Balance
checks (see the skill description on page. 6Z.of the Player’,
Handbook for DCs). Failure results in the moying charac-

ter falling off the ledge

Ledges sometimes have railings. In such a case, char-,
acters gain a +5.circumstance bonus on Balance checks |

to move along the ledge. A character who is.next 10.4
railing gains a +2 circumstance bonus on his or her
opposed Strength check to avoid being bull rushed off
the edge.

Ledges can also have low walls 2 to 3 feet high along
their edges. Such walls provide cover against attackers
within 30 feet on the other side of the wall, as long as the
target is closer to the low wall rhan the attacker is.

Transparent Floor: Transparent floors, made of reinforced glass
or magic materials (even a.suall of force), allow a dangerous setting
to be viewed safely from above. Transparent floors are sometimes
placed_over lava pools, arenas, monster dens, and torture cham-
bers. They can be used by defenders to watch key areas for
intruders.

Sliding Floors: A sliding floor is.a type of trapdoor, designed to
be moved and thus reveal something that lies beneath it A typical
sliding floor moves so slowly that anyone standing on one can
avoid falling into the gap it creates, assuming there's somewhere
else to go, If such a floor slides quickly enough that there's a
chance of a character falling into whatever lies beneath—a spiked
pit, a_vat of burning oil, or a pool filled with sharks—then it's a
trap (see page 67)

‘Trap Floors: Some floors are designed to become suddenly
dangerous. With the application of just the right amount of
weight, or.the pull of a lever somewhere nearby, spikes protrude
from the floor, gouts of steam or flame shoot up from hidden |
holes, or the entire floor tilts. These strange floors are sometimes |
found in an arena, designed to make combats more exciting and
deadly. Construct these floors.as you would any other trap.

DOORS
[Doors in dungeons are much more than mere entrances and.
exits, Often they.can be encounters all by themselves. After all,
anything that.can trigger a nasty.trap, offer you a clue, zap you
with aspell, or simply block your way deserves attention from the
