  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

dungeon explorer. The doorways that doors are set.in_may be
plain arches and lintels, or may be festooned with carvings
often gargoyles or leering faces but sometimes carved words that
might reveal a clue to what lies beyond, Dungeon doors. come in
three basic types; wooden, stone, and iron.

Wooden Doors: Constructed of thick planks nailed together,
sometimes bound with iron for strength (and to reduce swelling
from dungeon dampness), wooden doors are the most common.
type, Wooden doors come in varying strengths: simple, good, and
strong doors, Simple doors (break DC 13) are not meant to keep.
out motivated attackers, Good doors (break DC 16), while sturdy
and long-lasting, are still not meant to take much punishment
Strong doors (break DC_23) are bound in iron and are a sturdy
barrier to those attempting to get past them

Iron hinges fasten the door to its frame, and typically a circu
lar pull-ring in the center is there to help open it. Sometimes,
instead of a pull-ring.a door has an iron pull-bar on one or both
sides of the door to serve as a handle. In inhabited dungeons,
these.doors are usually well maintained (nor stuck) and
unlocked, although important areas are locked up if possible.

Stone: Carved from solid blocks of stone, these heavy,
dy doors are often built so that they pivot w
opened, although dwarves and other skilled craft
are able to fashion hinges strong enough to hold up a
stone door. Secret doors concealed within a stone wall
are usually stone doors. Otherwise, such doors stand as
tough barriers protecting something important
beyond, Thus, they are often locked or barred.

Iron: Rusted but sturdy, iron doors ina dungeon are
hinged like wooden doors. These doors are the tough:
est form of nonmagical door. They are usually locked or
barred.

Locks, Bars, and Seals: Dungeon doors may be
locked, trapped, reinforced, barred, magically sealed, or
sometimes just stuck. All but the weakest characters
can eventually knock down a door with a heavy tool
such as a sledgehammer, and a number of spells and
magic items give characters an easy way around a

 

 

 

unw

 

   
  
  
 

 

   

locked door

Attempts to literally chop a door down with a slashing
or bludgeoning weapon use the hardness and hit points
given in Table 3-10; Doors, Often the easiest way to overcome

recalcitrant door is not by demolishing it but by breaking

its Jock, bar, or hinges, When assigning a DC to

an attempt to knock a door down, use
the following as guidelines:

DC 10 or Lower; a door just about
anyone can break open.

DC 11-15; a door that a strong
person could break with one try and
an average person might be able to
break with one try

DC_16-20: a door that almost
anyone could break, given time
DC 21-25: a door that only a strong
or yery strong person has a hope of
breaking, probably not on the first try

DC 26 or Higher. a door that only an
exceptionally strong person has a
hope of breaking,

For specific examples in applying
these guidelines, see Table 3-17:
Random Door Types (page 78),

Locks; Dungeon doors are often

locked, and thus the Open Lock skill comes
in very handy, Locks are usually built into the door, either on the
edge opposite the hinges or right in the middle of the door. Built-

 

 

  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 

Wieden door

TasLe 3-10; Doors

Typical Hit Break DC
Door Type Thickness Hardness Points Stuck Locked |
Simple wooden Vin. 5 Whp 13 1555)
Good wooden 1-1/2in, 5 1Shp 16 18
|Strong wooden 2in, 5 2hp 23 2s
Stone 4 in 8 G60hp 28 28
tron Zin. 10 6Ohp 28 2B
Portcullis, wooden _ 3 in 5 30hp._25' 25!
Portcullis, iron Zin, 10 60hp 25° ast
Lock 1S 30hp.

= 10 30hp

 

1 DC to lift. Use appropriate door figure for breaking,

in locks either control an iron bar that juts out of the door and into
the wall of its frame, or else a sliding iron bar or heavy wooden bar
that rests behind the entire door. By contrast, padlocks are.not
builr-in but usually run through two rings, one on the door and
the other on the wall. More complex locks, such as combination,
locks and puzzle locks, are usually built into the door itself
Because such keyless locks are larger and more complex,
they are typically only found in sturdy doors (strong
wooden, stone, or iron doors

The Open Lock DC to pick a lock often falls into the

 

range of 20 to 30, although locks with lower or higher

  

| DCs can exist. A door can have more than.one lock,
X cach of which must be unlocked separately. Locks are.

| often trapped, usually with poison needles that,
sxtend out to prick a rogue’s finger.

Breaking a lock is sometimes quicker than break
ing the whole door. Ifa PC wants to whack at alock |
with asweapon, treat the typical lock as having ha
ness_15 and 30 hir points. A lock can only be
broken if it can be attacked separately from the
door, which means that a built-in lock is immune
to this sort of treatment

Keep in mind that in an occupied dungeon,

every locked door should havea key somewhere.
If the adventurers are unable to pick a lock or
break down the door, finding whoever has the key and get-
ting it away from its possessor can be an interesting part of
venture,
special door (see below for examples) might have a lock with
no key, instead requiring that the right combination of nearby
levers must be manipulated or the right symbols must be pressed
on a keypad in the correct sequence to
open the door. You're perfectly justi
fied in ruling that some puzzle doors
must be solved by the characters
rather than being bypassed with an
Open Lock check—for example.

if a door only unlocks when the
riddle carved on it is correctly
answered, then it's up tothe char-
acters.to solve the riddle.

Stuck Doors: Dungeons are
often damp, and sometimes doors
get stuck, particularly wooden
doors. Assume that about 10% of
wooden doors and 5% of non
wooden doors are stuck. These num
bers can be doubled (to 20% and. |
10%, respectively) for long-aban:
doned or neglected dungeons.
Table 3-17 (page 78) gives Strength
check DCs to open various kinds of
stuck doors,

 

th

 

 
