assistance. Strong creatures without the ability. to open doors CORRIDORS

 

 

 

ash them down if necessary. Burrowing creatures might dig Stretching into the darkness, a mysterious, cobweb-filled passage
their own exits deeper into the dungeon can be intriguing and a little frightening.

In general, both the PCs and the monsters should be able to All dungeons have rooms, and most have corridors. While most
move around aroom without too much difficulty. Fighting a battle, corridors simply connect_rooms, sometimes they can be
in particularly tight quarters can make foran interesting change) _|encounter areas in their own right because of traps, guard patrols,
of pace, however. | Tand wandering monsters out on the hunt

Common dungeon rooms fall into the following broad cate When designing a dungeon, make sure the corridors are large
‘gories. Use them asa springboard for your own creations, not asa, enough for the dungeon residents to use. (For example, a dragon
limited list | needs a pretty big.tunnel to get in and out of its Jair.) Wealthy,,

Guard Post: Intelligent, social denizens of the dungeon will powerful, or talented dungeon builders may favor wide corridors
generally have a series of adjacent rooms they consider “theirs, to give a grand appearance to their residences. Otherwise, pas-
and they'll guard the entrances to that common’ area. A guard post sages are no larger than they need to be. (Tunneling is.expensive,
may just be a room with a table where bored gnolls play a dice back-breaking, and time-consuming work.) Corridors narrower
game. Or it might be a pair of iron golems backed up by two fire: than 10 feet can. make it difficult for all the members of the PC

 

 

       

 

 

 
 

 

ball-casting drow wizards hiding in balconies overhead. When you _ party to get involved in any fights that occur, so make them the
design a guard post, decide how many guards are on duty, note, _exception rather than the rule
their Listen and Spot modifiers, and decide what they do when Corridor Traps: Because passageways in dungeons tend to be
they notice intruders, Some will rush headlong into a fight, while| —_[narrow, offering few movement options, dungeon builders like to
others will negotiate, sound an alarm, of retreat to get help. place traps in them, In a cramped passageway, there's no way for
Living Quarters: All but the most nomadic creatures have a| intruders to move around concealed pits, falling stones, arrow
lair where they can rest, eat, and store their treasure. Living quar- _traps, tilting floors, and sliding or rolling rocks that fill the entire
ters commonly include beds (if the creature sleeps), possessions _ passage. For the same reason, magic traps such as glyphs of warding
both valuable and mundane), and some sort of food preparation _are effective in hallways as well.
area (anything from a well-stocked kitchen to a fire pit to a hunk Mazes: Usually, passages connect chambers in the simplest and
of rotting venison), Noncombatant creatures such as juvenilesand _straightest manner possible. Some dungeon builders, howeve

 

 

the elderly are often found here, design a maze ora labyrinth within the dungeon. This sort of coi
Work Area: The bugbear fletcher has an. alcove where she struction is difficult to navigate (or at least.to navigate quickly) |
nakes new arrows for the tribe. The mind flayers have a grisly tor and, when filled with monsters or traps, can be an_effective bar:
ture chamber where they bring heir stunned victims for brain rier. A maze can be used to cut off one area of the dungeon, deflect-
extraction. Most intelligent creatures do more than just guard, eat, ing intruders away_from a protected spot. Generally, though, the.
and sleep, and many devote rooms to magic laboratories, work: far side of a maze holds an important crypt or vault—someplace.

 

shops for weapons and armor, or studios for more esoteric tasks, _that the dungeon’s regular inhabitants rarely need to get to.

Shrine: The ogre in the cave keeps a candle lit next to the skull Sia eae i
of her-child, which was killed by human hunters, The kuo-toas. MISCELLANEOUS FEATURE

   

   

 

 

 

have a series of underwater altars dedicated to their dread god Any dungeon is made more interesting by the inclusion of some
Blibdoolpoolp. Any creature thatis particularly religious may have. _or all of the following features

some place dedicated to worship, and others may venerate some Stairs: The usual way to connect different levels of a dungeon
thing of great historical or personal value. Depending on the crea is with stairs. Straight stairways, spiral staircases, or stairwells
ture’ resources and piety, a shrine can be humble or extensive.A| _ with multiple landings between flights of stairs are all common
shrine is where PCs will likely encounter NPC clerics, and it's, in dungeons, as are ramps (sometimes with an incline so slight
common for wounded monsters to flee toa shrine friendly to. _that ican be difficult to notice: Spot DC 15). Stairs are important
them when they seek healing accessways, and are sometimes guarded or trapped. Traps on

 

Vault; Well prorected, often by.a locked iron stairs often cause intruders to slide or fall down to the
door, a vault isa special room that contains trea bottom, where a pit, spikes, a pool of acid, or some other
sure, There's usually only one entrance—an danger awaits.
appropriate place for a trap. Gradual Stairs: Stairs that rise less than 5 feet for every 5

Crypt:_Although sometimes con- feet of horizontal distance they cover don't affect move:
structed like a vault, a crypt can also be » ment, but characters who attack a foe below them gain a +1
series of individual rooms, each with its } bonus on attack rolls from being on higher ground. Most stairs in
own sarcophagus, or a long hall with @ dungeons are gradual, except for spiral stairs (see below
recesses on either side—shelves to hold Steep Stairs: Characters moving up steep stairs (which rise at a 45
coffins or bodies, Wise adventurers expect degree angle or steeper) must spend 2 squares of movement to enter
to encounter undead in a crypt, but are each square of stairs, Characters running or charging
often willing to risk it.to look for the treasure down steep stairs must succeed on a DC 10 Balance chec
that's often buried with the dead. Cryprs of most upon entering the first steep stairs square, Characters who
cultures are well appointed and highly decorated, fail stumble and must end their movement 1d2xS feet late
since the fact that the crypt was created at Characters who fail by 5 or more take 1d6 points of damage
shows great reverence for the dead and fall prone in the square where they end their movement.
tombed within Steep stairs increase the DC of Tumble checks by s
Those who are worried about undead H spiral Stairs: This form of steep stairs is designed to make.
rising from.the grave take the precaution of ]] defending a fortress easier, Characters gain cover against foes,
Jocking and trapping a crypt from the ourside— below them on spiral stairs because they can easily duck |
making the crypt easy to get into but difficult around the staircase’s central support,
to leave. Those worried about tomb robbers Railings and Low Walls; Stairs that are open to large rooms
make their crypts difficult to get into. Some often have railings or low walls. They function as described
builders do both, just to be on the safe side. Spiralstaircase made ofiron__ for ledges (see Special Floors, page 60)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

 

   

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
