Characters who arent buried can dig out their friends. In 1
minute, using only her hands, a character.can clear rocks and
debris equal to five times her heavy load limit (see Table 9-1: Car-
rying Capacity, page 162 of the Player's Handbook). The amount of
loose stone that fills a. 5-foor-by-S-foot area weighs one ton (2,000).
pounds). Therefore, the average adventurer (Str 10, heavy load,
limir 100 Ib.) takes 4 minutes to clear a 5-foot cube filled with)

stone (100 Ib. x 5 = 500 Ib; 500 Ib. x 4.= 2,000 Ib.). A half-orc.with
\20 Strength (heavy load limit 400 Ib,) can accomplish the same},
feat in 1.minute (400 Ib, x 5 = 2,000 Ib.) Armed with an appropri-|
ate tool, such as a pick, crowbar, or shovel, a digger can clear loose
|stone.twice as quickly as by hand. You may allow a buried charac-
ter to free himself with a. DC 25 Strength check:

ILLUMINATION
Some dungeons are well-lighted, while others are as dark as pitch
,The illumination in a dungeon you create should depend on two.
(factors: the monsters that inhabit it and your preference as a DM.

Obviously, monsters without any way to see in the dark will)

\carry light with them or keep the areas they frequent illuminated_|
On the opposite end of the spectrum, creatures with blindsight
and tremorsense can often do without light. In general, smart
monsters will keep the lights off if they're worried about attacks
from humans and other creatures that can't see in the dark. And
less intelligent monsters may live in the dark simply because they
havent mastered the crafts of magic or making fire.

Creatures with 60-foot darkvision fall somewhere between the
[to extremes. They have an advantage against. creatures without
|darkvision if they. fight in the dark. On the other hand, few intelli-
\gent. creatures swill willingly live their day-to-day lives in black and
white when a simple torch or O-level spell would letthem see colors.
| Many underground civilizations keep “safe” areas lighted, but douse
their lanterns if they're warmed of intruders from the surface world.
| Another aspect of darkvision to consider is its limited range

Creatures who live in avast underground cavern might have

torches to light the entrance, which otherwise they couldnt see

because it’s more than 60 feet away from much of the cavern.

Because regular vision extends until irs blocked, their guards can,
see without being seen—a major tactical advantage.

You may want to have combat in the dark sparingly because it can}
be frustrating for the players, who spend much of their time guessing;
which squares their foes are in. A fight in the darkness is also harder
for you to keep track of, because you have to know where every
unseen foe is. It may be easier foryouand the players to simply estab-
lish the convention that in this dungeon, torches are get in sconces
every 40 feet along the walls. Bur done sparingly and well, a fight in
the darkness can tum into an exciting cat-and-mouse game, in which
characters with good Listen scores really have a chance to shine.

Random Features and Furnishings
{Table 3—11: Major Features and Furnishings is a list of large or pre-
dominant features commonly found in. dungeons. Use this table
as a feature generator when creating a random dungeon or to
round out one you are creating.

Adventures can also come across small bits and contents of dun-
geon rooms while exploring, Use Table 3-12: Minor Features and
Furnishings to generate these contents randomly, or pick what
appeals to you from the list.

 

BEHIND THE CURTAIN: TRAPS

Why use traps? Traps change the play of the game. if the adventurers
suspect traps or have encountered them frequently in the past, they're
much more likely to be cautious on adventures and particularly in dun-
geons. While instilling a little fear and paranoia in players can be fun, you
should be aware that this also tends to slow down play, and searching

 

 

 

 

In.adungeon, adventurers can fall to their deaths, be burned alive,|
or find themselves peppered with poisoned darts—all withourever|
jhaving encountered a single monster. Dungeons tend to be filled
Lwith barriers or life-threatening traps of one kind or another. The
[following section describes how traps work, provides a large selec-
tion of sample traps, and offers some basic rules for trap creation.

‘Types of Traps: A tap can be either mechanical or magic in,

.nature. Mechanical traps include pits, arrow traps, falling blocks,
\water-filled rooms, whirling blades, and anything else that}
depends on a mechanism to operate. A mechanical trap can be
constructed by a PC through successful use of the Craft (trapmak-
ing) skill (see Designing a Trap, page 74, and the skill ee
on page.20.of the Player’: Handbook).

Magic traps are further divided into spell traps and magic,

,device traps. Magic device traps initiate spell effects when acti-

i vated, just as wands, rods, rings, and other magic items do, Creat-,
ling a magic device trap.requires the Craft Wondrous Irem feat (see.

{Designing a Trap, page 74, and the feat description on page 92 of,
the Player's Handbook),

Spell traps are simply spells that themselves function as.traps,,
such_as fire tap or glyph of warding. Creating a spell trap requires
the services of a. character who can cast the needed spell or spells,
who is usually either the character creating the tap or an NPC
spellcaster hired for the purpose.

MECHANICAL TRAPS
Dungeons are frequently equipped with deadly mechanical (non-|
magical) traps, such.as hidden crossbows that fire when the target,
unwittingly steps.on.a trigger plate on the floor, or hallways rigged |
to collapse in a deadly cave-in. A trap typically is defined by its loca: |
tion and triggering conditions, how hard it is to spot before it goes}
off, how much damage it deals, and whether or nor the heroes
receive a saving throw to mitigate its effects. Traps that attack swith,
arrows, sweeping blades, and other types of weaponry make normal
attack rolls, with a specific attack bonus dictated by the trap’s design.

Creatures who succeed on a DC 20 Search check detect a simple
mechanical trap before it is rriggered. (A simple trap is a snare, a
trap triggered by a tripwire, ora large. trap such asa pit.)

A character with the trap sense class feature who succeeds on a
DC 21 (or higher) Search check detects a well-hidden or complex
mechanical trap before it is triggered. Complex traps are denoted
by their triggering mechanisms and involve pressure plates,
mechanisms linked to doors, changes in weight, disturbances in
the air, vibrations, and other sorts of unusual triggers.

MAGIC TRAPS

Many spells can be used to create dangerous traps. For example,

high-level clerics can create glyphs of warding or symbol spells to.

prevent intruders from entering a particular area, while high-level

wizards.can create fine tnaps or permanent images to conceal dangers

or confuse invaders. Unless the spell or item description states

otherwise, assume the following to be true.

+A successful Search check (DC 25 + spell level) made by a
rogue (and only a rogue) detects a magic trap before it goes off.
Other characters have no chance to find a magic trap.with a
Search check,

every square foot of a corridor can get tedious for players and DM alike.

The solution is to place traps only when appropriate. Characters and
creatures put traps on tombs and vaults to keep out intruders, but
traps can be annoying and inappropriate in well-traveled areas. An
intelligent creature is never going to build a trap that it might fall victim
to itself.

a a RR

 
