 

+ Magic traps permit a saving throw in order to. avoid the effect

(DC 10 + spell level x 1.5),
* Magic traps may be disarmed by a rogue (and only a rogue) with
a successful Disable Device check (DC 25 + spell level),

ELEMENTS OF A TRAP

All traps—mechanical or magic—have the following elements:

jtrigger, reset, Search DC, Disable Device DC, attack bonus (or)
\saving throw or onset delay), damage/effect, and Challenge)
Rating. Some traps may also include optional elements, such as

[poison or a bypass. These characteristics are described below.

Trigger
A trap’s trigger determines how it is sprung.
Location: A location trigger springs a trap when someone
stands in a particular square. For.example, a covered pit trap typi-
cally. activates when a.creature steps on a certain spot.

Proximity: This trigger activates the trap when a creature ap-|
\proaches within a certain distance of it. A proximity trigger differs |
}from a location trigger in that the creature need not be standing in

a particular square, Creatures that are flying can spring a trap with
a proximity trigger but not one with a location trigger. Mechanical
proximity triggers are extremely sensitive to the slightest change
in the air. This makes them useful only in places such as crypts,
where the air is unusually still

The proximity trigger used most often for magic device traps is

the alarm spell. Unlike when the spell is cast, an alarm spell used
[asa trigger can have an area that's no larger than the area the trap
jis meant to protect.

Some. magic device traps have special proximity triggers that
activate only when certain kinds of creatures. approach. For

\example, a detect good spell can serve as a proximity trigger on an
{evil altar, springing the attached trap only when someone of good
jalignment gets close enough to it,

Sound; This trigger springs a magic trap. when it.detects any
sound, A sound trigger functions like an ear and has. a +15 bonus on
Listen checks, A successful Move Silently check, magical silence, and
other effects that would negate hearing defeat it. A trap.with.a

sound trigger requires the casting of clairaudience during its con-|

struction.

Visu:
springing the trap whenever it “sees” something, A trap with a
visual trigger requires the casting of arcane eye, clairvoyance, or true
seeing during its construction. Sight.range and the Spot bonus con-
ferred on the trap depend on the spell chosen, as shown.

 

Spell Sight Range Spot Bonus
arcane eye Line of sight (unlimited range) +20
| clairvoyance One preselected location +15
true seeing Line of sight (up to 120 ft) +30

1f you want the trap.to “see” in the dark, you must either choose
the true seeing option or add darkvision to the trap as well. (Dark-
vision limits the traps sight range in the dark to 60 feet.) If invisi-
bility, disguises, or illusions can fool the spell being used, they can
fool the visual trigger as well.

Touch; A touch trigger. which springs the trap when touched,
is one of the simplest kinds of trigger to construct. This trigger
may be physically attached to the part of the mechanism that
\deals the damage (such asa.ncedle that springs out of alock), or it
ymay_not. You can make a.magic touch trigger by adding alarm.to

{the trap and reducing the area of the effect to cover only the trig-
\ger-spot.

| Timed: This.trigger periodically springs the trap after a certain
duration has passed. A sharpened blade that thrusts out from a slit

in acorridor wall every 4 rounds is an example of a timed trigger. |
Spell: All spell traps have this kind of trigger. The appropriate,

 

this trigger for magic traps works like an actual eye,

spell descriptions in the Player's Handbook explain the trigger con:
ditions for traps that contain spell triggers.

Reset
LA reset element is the set.of conditions under which a trap be-
{comes ready ro trigger again.
No Reset: Short of completely rebuilding the trap, there's no
way to trigger it more than once. Spell traps have no reset element
Repair: To get the trap functioning again, you must repair it.
._. Manual: Resetting the trap requires someone.to move the parts,
\back into place. This is the kind of reset element most mechanical)
traps have.
Automatic: The trap resets itself, either immediately or.after a
timed interval.

Repairing and Resetting Mechanical Traps
Repairing a mechanical trap requires 2 Craft (trapmaking) check
against a DC equal to the one for building it. The cost for raw mate-
jrials is one-fifth of the trap’s original marker price. To calculate
‘Thow long it takes to fix.a trap, use the same calculations you would
for building ir, but use the cost.of the raw materials required for
repair in place of the market price. +
Resetting a trap usually takes only a minute.or so—someone
just has to lever the trapdoor back into place, reload she crossbow
behind the wall, or push the poisoned needle back into. the lock.
For a trap.with a more difficult reset method, you should set the
time and labor required.

Bypass (Optional Element) }
If the builder of a trap.wants to be able to move past the.trap after,
it is created or placed, it's a good idea to build in a bypass mecha-|
nism—something that temporarily disarms the trap, Bypass ele-|
ments are typically used only with mechanical traps; spell traps
usually have built-in allowances for the caster to bypass them.

Lock: A lock bypass requires a DC 30 Open Lock check to open,

Hidden Switch: A hidden switch requires a DC 25 Search
check to locate.

Hidden Lock: A hidden lock combines the features above,
requiring a DC 25 Search check to locate and a DC 30 Open Lock
check to open.

Search and Disable Device DCs
The builder sets the Search and Disable Device DCs for a mechan-
ical trap. For a magic trap, the values depend on the highest-level
spell used
Mechanical Trap: The base DC for both Search and Disable
Device checks is 20. Raising or lowering either of these DCs
affects the base cost (Table 3~15) and possibly the CR (Table 3-13).
Magic Trap: The DC for both Search and Disable Device checks
is equal to 25 + the spell level of the highestlevel spell used. Only
characters with the trap sense.class feature can attempt a Search
check ora Disable Device check involving a magic trap. These
DCs do not affect the trap’s cost. or CR.

 

 

Attack Bonus/Saving Throw DC
A trap usually either makes an attack roll or forces a saving throw
to avoid it, Occasionally a trap uses both of these options, or nei-
ther (see Never Miss, page 70).

Pits: These are holes (covered or not) that characters can fall.
into and take damage. A pit needs no attack roll, bur.a. successful |
Reflex save (DC set by the builder) ayoids it. Other save-depend-)
ent mechanical traps also fall into this category. 1

Pits in dungeons come in three basic varieties: uncovered, cov- |

\ered, and chasms. Like.a cliff ora wall, a pit ora. chasm forces charac-
ters.1o either detour around it or take the time and trouble to figure
outa way across. Pits and chasms can be defeated by judicious appli-
cation of the Climb skill, the Jump skill, or various magical means.
