 

ding bonus on damage. For example,a ranged attack trap (+4 Str
bonus) that fires shortspears.could deal up.to 1d8+4 points of
damage per successful hit,

Melee Attack Traps: These traps deal the same damage as the
melee weapons they “wield.” In the case of a falling stone block, you!
can assign any. amountof bludgeoning damage you like, but remem-,
ber that whoever resets the trap has to lift that stone back into place. |
\Aumelee attack trap can be constructed with a built-in bonus on}
{damage rolls, just as if the trap itself had a high Strength score.

Spell Traps: Spell traps produce the spell’s effect, as described |
in.the appropriate entry in the Player's Handbook. Like all spells, a

»spell trap thar allows a saying throw has.a save DC of 10 ¢ spell
-level + caster’s relevant ability: modifier,

Magic Device Traps: These traps produce the effects of any
spells included in their. construction, as described in the appropri-
ate entries in the Players Handbook. If the spell in a magic device

,trap.allows.a saving throw, its save DC is 10 + spell level x 1.5.
)Some spells make attack rolls instead. 4
|Special: Some traps have miscellaneous features that produce
{special effects, such as drowning for a water trap or ability,
damage for poison. Saving throws and damage depend on the
poison (see Table 8-3; Poisons, page 297) or are set by the builder,
as appropriate.

Miscellaneous Trap Features
Some traps include optional features that.can.make them consid-
erably more deadly. The most common such features are discussed
jbelow.

Alchemical Item: Mechanical traps may incorporate alchemi-
ical devices or other special substances or items, such as.tanglefoor
jbags, alchemist's fire, thunderstones, and the like. Some such
\items mimic spell effects. For example, the effect of a.tanglefoot
jbag is similar to that of an entangle spell, and the effect of a thun-
\derstone is similar to that of a deafness spell. If the item mimics a

spell effect, it increases the CR as shown.on Table 3-13.

Gas: With a gas trap, the danger is in the inhaled poison ir deliv-
ers, Traps employing gas usually have the never miss and onset
delay features (see below). }

Liquid: Any trap that involves a danger of drowning (such.as.a
locked room filling with water or a patch of quicksand that char-|
acters can fall into) is in this category. Traps employing liquid usu-
ally have the never miss and onser delay features (see below)

Multiple Target: Traps with this feature can affect more than
one character.

Never Miss: When the entire dungeon wall moves to crush
you, your quick reflexes won't help, since the wall cant possibly
miss. A trap with this feature has neither an_attack bonus nor a

Saving throw.to avoid, but it does have. an onset delay (see below).
{Most traps involving liquid or gas are of the never miss variety.

Onset Delay: An onset delay is the amount of time between
twhen.the trap is sprung and when it deals damage. A never miss
trap always has an onset delay.

 

   

VARIANT: WHAT DISABLING A DEVICE MEANS
Soa character makes her Disable Device check against a trap. What does
that success do to the trap? With this variant rule, the answer to that
question depends on the amount by which the character beat the DC.
Check the paragraph below that corresponds to the margin of success.

Check Result = DC +0-3: The next time the trigger would spring the
trap, it doesn’t. After that, however, the trigger operates normally, and
another Disable Device check is required to disarm it again.

Check Result = DC +4-6: The character messed up the trap’s work:
ings. It won't function again until it’s reset. If it's a trap that resets
automatically, use the next result below,

 

Poison: Traps. that employ poison are deadlier than their-non-
poisonous counterparts, so they have correspondingly higher
CRs. To determine the CR modifier for a given poison, consult.
Table 3-13 (page 74). Only injury, contact, and inhaled poisons are |
suitable for traps; ingested typesare not

Some traps, such as a table covered with contact poison, simply
deal the poison’s damage. Others, such as a poisoned arrow or
sword blade, deal damage with ranged or melee attacks as well.

Pit Spikes: Treat spikes at the bottom of a pit as daggers, each

.with a +10 attack bonus, The damage bonus for each spike is +1 per
110 feet of pit depth (to. a maximum of +5). Each character who falls
into the pit is attacked by 1d4 spikes. Pit spikes do not.add to the
average damage of the trap (see Average Damage, page 75),

Pit Bottom: If something other than spikes wwaits atthe bottom,
of a pit, it's best to treat that as a separate trap.(see Multiple Traps, |
page 75) with a location trigger that activates on any.significant

impact, such asa falling character. Possibilities for pit bottom traps
jinclude acid, monsters, and water.

Touch Attack; This feature applies to any trap that needs only a,

jsuccessful touch attack (melee or ranged) to hit.

SAMPLE TRAPS

The following traps are suitable for protecting a dungeon, mer-
chant guildhouse, or military complex, The costs listed for
mechanical traps are marker prices; those for magic traps are raw
material costs. Caster level and class for the spells used to produce
the trap effects are provided in the entries for magic. device traps.

jand spell traps. For all other spells used (in triggers, for example),
the caster level is assumed to be the minimum required. }

CRI Traps ;

Basic Arrow Trap: CR 1; mechanical; proximity trigger:
manual reset; Atk +10 ranged (1d6/x3, arrow); Search DC 20; Dis-
able Device DC 20. Market Price: 2,000 gp.

Camouflaged Pit Trap: CR 1; mechanical; location trigger;
manual reset; DC 20 Reflex save avoids; 10 ft. deep (1d6, fall)
Search DC 24; Disable Device DC 20, Market Price: 1,800 gp.

Deeper Pit Trap: CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual
reset; hidden switch bypass (Search DC 25); DC 15 Reflex save
avoids; 20 ft. deep (2d6, fall); multiple targets (first target in each
of two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 23.
Market Price: 1,300 gp.

Doorknob Smeared with Contact Poison: CR 1; mechanical;
touch trigger (attached), manual reset; poison (carrion crawler
brain juice, DC 13 Fortitude save resists, paralysis/0); Search DC
19; Disable Device DC 19. Market Price: 900 gp.

Fusillade of Darts: CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual
reset; Atk +10 ranged (1d4+1, dart); multiple targets (fires 1d4
darts at each target in two adjacent 5-ft. squares); Search DC 14;
Disable Device DC 20. Market Price: S00 gp.

Poison Dart Trap: CR 1; mechanical; location trigger; manual
reset; Atk +8 ranged (1d¢ plus poison, dart); poison (bloodroot, DC

 

Check Result = DC +7-9: The character really broke the trap, It won't
go off again until someone repairs it using the Craft (trapmaking) skill
This repair costs 1d8x10% of the traps total construction cost.

Check Result « DC +10 or more: The character either broke the
trap (as above) or succeeded in adding or discovering a bypass
element, This latter option enables characters to either get past the
trap without triggering it or avoid its effect, but the trap remains
active. For example, a character who achieves this degree of success
on a Disable Device check could manage to prop open a spring-
loaded trap so that it can’t fire, or could notice the niche in the wall
that provides refuge from the rolling boulder.

 
