 

Spell Trap Cost
A spell trap has a cost only if the builder must hire an NPC spell-
caster to cast it. See Table 7-8: Goods and Services, page 128 of the
Player's Handbook, for these costs,

Craft DCs for Mechanical Traps

Once you know the Challenge Rating of a trap that a PC wants to!
(design and build, determine the Craft (trapmaking) DC by refer-|

ring to the table and the modifiers given below.

Trap CR Base Craft (Trapmaking) DC
13 20
4-6 25
710 30
Modifier to Craft
Additional Components. {Trapmaking) DC
, Proximity trigger 5
} Automatic reset 5

Making the Checks: To determine how much progress a char,

acter makes on building a trap each week, that character makes a
Craft (trapmaking) check. Page 70 of the Player's Handbook contains
details on Craft checks and the circumstances that can affect them,

 

{An inhabited dungeon is an environment in.and of itself The crea-
}tures thar live there need to eat, drink, breathe, and sleep just as
|the creatures of the forest or the plains do, Predators need prey,

Creatures living in the dungeon need to be able to get around.

iLocked doors, or even doors thar require hands to open, can pre-
jvent creatures from getting to food or water.

Consider these factors when designing adungeon you want the
players to believe in. If the environment doesnt have some logic
behind it, the PCs can't make decisions based on reasoning while.
adventuring there. For example, upon finding a pool of fresh

water in the dungeon, a character should be able to make the,
assumption that many of the creatures inhabiting the place come}
to thar spot often. Thus, the PCs could wait in ambush for a partic-|
ular creature that they're after. Bits of faulty dungeon logic, suchas,

all the doors in a dungeon being locked when the dungeon is
home to many creatures, destroy any chance of verisimilitude

DUNGEON ANIMALS
Not everything that lives in a dungeon is a monster. Other crea-
tures inhabit these unlit labyrinths as well.

Creepy Crawlers: Insects, spiders, grubs, and worms of all
kinds live in the dark recesses of dungeons. They dont present a
jreal. threat, bur they do provide food for predators and scavengers
Lin the dungeon—which in turn pose a threat to adventurers.

Rats: Rats make up an important part of any dungeon ecology.
These omnivorous rodents serve as the staple for most dungeon
predators and scavengers. In huge swarms, they become a threat
themselves,

Bats: Like rats, bats are found throughout any dungeon with
access to outside air. Although normal bats aren't dangerous, a
swarm of bats can obscure vision and hamper the actions of dun-
geon delvers—particularly spellcasting.

Other Animals: Small creatures such as badgers and ferrets or
-large.omnivores such as bears and apes may take toa full-time (or
jalmost full-time) subterranean existence in a world filled with
idungeons and caverns. Predatory animals such as tigers, wolves,
land snakes follow their prey down into the dungeons and remain,

becoming a part of the ecology. Deep dungeon delvers have
brought back stories of colossal caverns far underground with
flocks of birds flying about. And of course underground streams,

lakes, and even seas teem with all sorts of fish, water mammals,,
and aquatic reptiles.

Over the generations, dungeon animals have developed. dark-|
vision in order to survive. They have adapted to their environ-;

{ment, and now they thrive in the dark confines of caves and pas-
isages. They feed on mold, fungi, or each other. Because of the lack
jof sunlight, many species have become entirely. white, while

others have evolved a black coloration to hide in the darkness.

Slimes, Molds, and Fungi

Ina dungeons damp, dark recesses, molds and fungithrive. While
some plants and fungi are monsters (see. the Monster Manual), and.
other slime, mold, and fungus is just normal, innocuous stuff, a
few varieties are dangerous dungeon encounters. For purposes of
spells and other special effects, all slimes, molds, and fungi are
treated as plants. Like traps, dangerous slimes and molds have

{CRs, and characters earn XP for encountering them.

A form of glistening organic sludge coats almost anything that

4remains in the damp and dark for too long. This kind of slime,
sthough it might be repulsive, is not dangerous.

Molds and fungi flourish in dark, cool, damp places. While some
are as inoffensive as the normal dungeon slime, others are quite
dangerous. Mushrooms, puffballs, yeasts, mildew, and other sorts
of bulbous, fibrous, or flat patches of fungi can be found through-
our most dungeons. They are usually inoffensive, and some are
even edible (though most are unappealing or odd-tasting).

Green Slime (CR 4): This dungeon peril_isadangerous variety,
of normal slime. Green slime devours flesh and organic materials |
on contact and is even capable of dissolving metal. Bright green,!
wet, and sticky, it clings to walls, floors, and ceilings in patches,
reproducing as it consumes organic matter. It drops from walls
and ceilings when it detects movement (and possible food) below.

A single 5-foot square of green slime deals 1d6 points of Con-
stitution damage per round while it devours flesh, On the first
round of contact, the slime can be scraped off 2 creature (most
likely destroying the scraping device), but after that it must be
frozen, burned, or cut away (dealing damage to the victim as
well). Anything thar deals cold or fie damage, sunlight, or a
remove disease spell destroys a patch of green slime. Against
wood or metal, green slime deals 2d6 points of damage per
round, ignoring metal's hardness_but not that of wood. It does
not harm stone

Dwarves consider green slime to be one of the worst hazards
of mining and underground construction. They have their own
ways of burning it out of infested areas, methods that they say are
thorough..“If you don't do it proper, the stuff comes right back,”
they claim.

Yellow Mold (CR 6): If disturbed, a 5-foor square of this mold
bursts forth with a cloud of poisonous spores. All within 10 feet of
the mold must make a DC 15 Fortitude save or take 1d6 points of.
Constitution damage. Another DC 15 Fortitude save is required 1
minute later—even by those who succeeded on the first save—to
avoid taking 2d6 points of Constitution damage. Fire destroys
yellow mold, and sunlight renders it dormant.

Brown Mold (CR 2): Brown mold feeds on warmth, drawing
heat from anything around it. It normally comes in patches $ feet
in diameter, and the temperature is always cold in a 30-foot radius
around it. Living creatures within 5 feet of ir take 3d6 points of
nonlethal cold damage. Fire brought within $ feet of brown mold |
causes it.to instantly double in size. Cold damage, such as from. a)
icone of cold, instantly destroys it

Phosphorescent Fungus (No CR): This strange undexground}
fungus grows in clumps that look almost like stunted shrubbery. ,
Drow elves cultivate it for food and light. It gives off a soft violet
glow that illuminates underground caverns and passages as well
as.a.candle does, Rare patches of fungus illuminate as well as a
torch does.
