WANDERING MONSTERS

While the adventurers are exploring the dungeon, the light of
their lanterns attracts the attention of hungry dire weasels, who
come to see if they can catch some soft and juicy things to eat. On
another delve, a carrion crawler finds them and follows them, out,
of sight. When it hears.a fight, it scrambles up from behind and.
tries to make off with a character who has fallen in combat. On yet}
\another expedition, the party meets another party of adventurers.
Lf the two groups can work together, they can exchange vital)
information, trade valuable items,.and possibly even_work)
together. The meeting, however,.could just as easily turn into a
nasty fight, Wandering monsters such as these add unpredictabil-
ity and action to dungeon advennures,

Wandering Monster Rolls

As the adventurers explore a dungeon, make rolls to see if they
jencounter wandering monsters, Use wandering monster rolls to
add an unpredictable element to a dungeon delve, to encourage |
|characters.to keep moving, and to put a price on being noisy. The}
‘exact formula for when you roll for wandering monsters is up 10,
you. Generally, the chance is 10% for a wandering monstet to.
show up when certain conditions are met

When a Certain Amount of Time Has Passed: Making one roll per
hour is typical. You can roll more often in heavily populated areas,
up to as often as once every 10 minutes, If you're not already track-
ing time in the dungeon and you dont want to start, roll for wan

|deting monsters when the characters are doing anything that
itakes a long time (such as raking 20 while searching a room for
{secret doors) instead of keeping track of the clock.

When Characters Make Noise: Breaking adoor or having.a typical.
fight counts as making noise. Breaking adoor and then having a
fight right away counts as one instance of noise,.so it’s one roll,

, Getting into a loud argument, knocking overa statue, and running
\up and down stairs in full kit ar cop speed are other actions that
mightcall for a wandering monster roll.

In High-Traffic Areas: Deciding what constitutes a high-traffic
area is up-to you. You can roll every time the characters enter a
new corridor, provided such a corridor makes it easy for creatures
to get to.and fro and thus sees a lot of traffic. Other areas, such as)
pools of fresh water, might also attract many creatures,

In Cleared-Out Areas: Ifthe PCs have cleared out part of the dun-|
geon, then you can roll for wandering monsters as they travel
through a previously cleared area to an uncleared area. After all,
creatures spread out to fill a vacuum, claiming abandoned terri-
tory as their own,

When Leaving the Dungeon: While you have every right to roll
for wandering monsters as the party_is leaving the dungeon, you

,might decide not to. The characters generally make good time as
they head for the surface, and they're usually taking a route they
have_used on their way in, so it’s reasonable for the chance for

wandering monsters to go down. Also, if the players know that the

characters might face an extra.encounter on the way home, they
tend to break off their exploration when they feel they.can still
handle another encounter, causing them to act more cautiously
than they wantto or than you may.want them to.

Monsters Encountered.
In a sprawling, random dungeon, you can simply use.the random
dungeon encounter tables (pages 79-81) to determine which
monsters wander by, Reroll if the result would be.astationary crea-
ture or one_unlikely. to. wander. In asmaller or special dungeon,
jmake-your own.tandom encounter tables.
‘The entries on.a customized wandering monster table can indi-
\cate individual monsters.or groups of monsters rather than kinds
of monsters. For example, the entry “Large monstrous scorpion”
could mean.a particular scorpion that lives in this dungeon rather
than.a random scorpion from an indefinitely large population of

WANDERING MONSTER SUMMARY }
Wandering Monster Chance = 10%
Make-a roll on d% in the following circumstances. 4.

+ Every hour the characters are in the dungeon
+ When the characters make noise:
+ In high-traffic areas,
You may decide to add or omit rolls in the following circumstances.
+ In cleared-out areas of the dungeon.
+ While the characters are leaving the dungeon.

similar scorpions. That way, once the characters have killed that
scorpion, they cant.encounter it again. Crearures.on.a.customized.
table could also haye lairs keyed on the dungeon map, so that
adventurers who kill a creature while it's wandering would later,
find its lair empty. Similarly, those who kill it in its lair would,
never encounter it wandering.

In the same way that you can invent the denizens of specific
{dungeon rooms rather than determining them randomly, you can
jinvent specific wandering monsters, These could include mon-,
Tsters that escaped from the PCs before (or that the PCs escaped

from). Indeed, you can replace the idea of the wandering monster.
with a random event instead. The characters could hear fighting in.,
the distance, stumble across random clues 10 the dungeons past,
or become subject to strange, fluctuating magical auras in place of
encountering a. wandering monster.

Wandering Monsters’ Treasure
Overall, wandering monsters don't have as. much treasure as mon-|
sters encountered in their lairs. When NPCs.are.encountered as |
wandering monsters, their gear is their treasure, Intelligent wan-|
dering monsters might (50% chance) have a treasure whose level |
is equal to the dungeon level. Unintelligent monsters dont have}
treasure. A dire weasel’s den might be littered with the valuables of |
creatures it has killed, but it doesn't carry that stuff around with it
Since wandering monsters have less treasure than monsters in.
their lairs or homes, characters typically try to. minimize their
encounters with wandering monsters.

 

is section tells you how to generate dungeons randomly, from
the first door to the great red dragon and its massive treasure
hoard on the lowest, most dangerous level.

DUNGEON LEVEL
Some dungeons are a series of levels or floors, each beneath the
one above, with more dangerous levels found lower down and
safer ones.nearer the surface. For such dungeons, the floor nearest
the surface can be ist level (EL 1) and each successively deeper
level can_be one dungeon level higher, (The second one down
would be 2nd level, the third one. 3nd level, and so forth.)

The serm “level” as it pertains to dungeons measures how dan-
gerous the dungeon (or any other adventure area) is at a particular
location. Generally, a party of characters should adventure in areas
whose level marches their party level (though large groups can handle
tougher areas and small groups might need to stay in easier areas),

THE MAP AND THE KEY
Once you have decided the level of your dungeon (or the. partofit)
you're creating, if it has multiple levels), draw a. map.on.graphJ

,paper.(or. anyother paper_that suits you), Determine the general)
wall and floor types—masonry, hewn stone, natural caves, and so}
on, as you draw the map. The map should show rooms, corridors, |
Land doors, If you plan.to.make a sprawling dungeon of enormous
size, you dont need to map it all at once.

| You also need a separate sheet of paper for the map’s key: The
key describes the dungeon.

 
