 

speed). If the PCs do not act quickly, the tube is swept away and”

lost in a single round. The tube contains treasure.
Getting the map will be hard for characters unless they act fast
and roll well. However, the reward is great, because they are

shown a secret passage. that they probably would otherwise miss,
Treasure; Inside this not-quite-watertight ivory tube is a)

[vellum map, smeared due to water seepage.

|__Depending on how you want to proceed, this map might depict |
\other rooms deeper inside the monastery cellar (if you want.to}
,develop them and continue this adventure) or some other site that)

|you.want to use as a springboard for further adventuring.

3, Empty Ceremonial Chamber (EL 4)

This room appears to be a dead end. Its domed ceiling arches

up to 25 feet high in the center, On the east side of the cham-

ber, « fast-flowing stream of water 5 feet wide runs from north
* wsouth.

{This area can be represented by the 3-by-S-square room to the south of the,

area the PCs are coming from (disregard the walls that block off the two
squares in the southeast corner).

The monks brought the faithful here after death, consecrated each
corpse, and then carried it to its final resting place in the crypts. A
wooden platfarm against the west wall served.as both a dais upon
,which to hold the ceremony and as a means to.reach the secret
[door leading into the crypts to. the west. The platform has been
gone from this site for many years; when it.was here, it rose 9 feet
\off the ground, with the bottom of the secret door being 1 foot
jabove that. Two knobs just above the level of the vanished plat-
{form look like mere bumps in the wall, but when. they are pushed
simultaneously, a 5-foot-by-s-foot portion of the wall swings our-
fescdseith a grinding naise

Tomove any farther into the monastery cellar, the PCs will have
to solve the. puzzle of how to open this secret passage. The two
knobs that. need to be pushed simultaneously are 10 feet off the

ground in adjacent squares in the southwest corner of the room. |
Before the characters can begin to figure this out, they must con-|

tend with the other occupants of the room.
Creatures: Three ghouls lurk in the east end of this chamber on,

the other side of the 5-foot-wide stream. They rush forward to.

attack the PCs as soon as all of them have moved into this chamber.
Ghouls (3); hp 13,13,.18.

Going on from Here
If you use these three encounter areas as the start of an adventure
,in.the corridors and chambers beneath the monastery, you can
itake the adventure in any direction you like after the PCs dispose
jof the ghouls and figure out how.to.open the secret door, That
\door-might lead to a long corridor riddled with traps (to discour-
age looters from entering the crypts), or it might provide egress
into an enormous chamber with a number of different corridors
leading away from it....or anything else you can think of.

MONSTER STATISTICS

Here are the statistics blocks (a form of condensed creature statis-
tics) for the creatures briefly. mentioned above. These sample sta-
tistics blocks present all the information needed to run an
,encounter with the spiders and one with the ghouls. For informa-
ition on how to read a statistics block, see the following page.
}—For-your.own notes, you can. write out this information in as

{much oras little detail as you like. Ir's best.to include all the infor-

_{mation you may need at first, then gradually make the entries
more abbreviated (for example: 3 ghouls, hp 13 each, ghoul fever,

paralysis, undead type).as you become familiar with various crea: |

tures’ abilities through repeated encounters,

Small Monstrous Spider (1): CR 1/2; Small vermin; HD 148;
hp 2; 1nit+3; Spd 30 ft., climb 20 ft; AC 14, touch 14, flat-footed 11;
Base Atk +0; Grp ~6; Atk +4 melee (id4—2 plus poison, bit
Atk +4 melee (1d4-2 plus poison, bite); Space/Reach 5 ft,/S

{poison, web; SQ tremorsense, vermin traits; AL N; SV Fort +2, Ref
443, Will +0; Str 7, Dex 12, Con 10, Int—, Wis 10, Cha 2

Skills and Feats: Climb +11, Hide +11°, Jump +4, Spot +12°;
Weapon Finesse.

Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 10, initial and secondary.,
,damage 1d3 Str,

Web (Ex): This spider produces silk. Spiders can waitin their |
webs, then lower themselves silently on silk strands and leap onto.
prey passing beneath. A single strand is strong enough to support
the spider.and one creature of the same size. “Monstrous spiders ,
gain a+8 competence bonus on Hide and Move Silently checks
when using their webs.

Web-spinning spiders can throw a web eight times per day. This
jattack is similar to an attack with a net bur maximum range of 50
Afect, range increment 10 feet, and effective against targets up 10.
Tone size category larger than the spider. The web anchors the

target in place, allowing no movement. An entangled creature.can.
escape with a DC 15 Escape Artist check or burst.it with a DC 14
Strength check. Both are standard actions.

Web-spinning spiders often create sheets of sticky webbing.
Approaching creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Spot check to
notice a web; otherwise, they stumble into it and become trapped
as though by a successful thrown web attack. Attempts to escape
or burst the webbing gain a +5 bonus if the trapped creature has ,
something to walk on or grab while pulling free. Each S-foot sec-
tion has 4 hit points, and sheet webs have damage reduction
5/fire.

A monstrous spider.can move across its own sheet web at its]
climb speed and can determine the exact location of any creature |
touching the web.

Tremorsense (Ex): A monstrous spider can detect. and locate any
creature or object in contact with the ground within 60 feet, or
any creature or object in contact with the spider's webs at an
unlimited range.

Vermin Traits: Darkvision out to. 60 feet, Mindless; no Intelli-
gence score, and immunity.to._mind-affecting effects (charms,
compulsions, phantasms, patterns. and morale effects).

 

Tiny Monstrous Spiders (6); CR 1/4; Tiny vermin; HD 1/2 d8;
hp2each; Init +3; Spd 20 ft., climb 10 ft, AC 15, touch 15, flat-footed
12; Base Atk +0; Grp -12; Atk +5 melee (1d3-+ plus poison, bite);
Full Ark +5 melee (1d3—+ plus poison, bite}; Space/Reach 2-1/2 ft./0
ft; SA poison, web; SQ tremorsense, vermin traits; AL N; SV Fort +2,
Ref +3, Will +0; Str 3, Dex 17, Con 10, Int—, Wis 10, Cha 2.

Skills and Feats: Climb +11, Hide +15", Jump +0, Spot +12°;
‘Weapon Finesse.

Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 10, initial and secondary
damage 1d2 Str,

Web.(Ex); The webs inthis encounter were all produced by the
mother spider; see the Small monstrous spider entry, above, for
details. "Monstrous spiders gain a +8 competence bonus on Hide
and Move Silently checks when using their webs,

These monstrous spiders can move across their mother's sheet
web at their climb speed and can determine the exact location of
any creature touching the web.

Tremorsense (Ex);.A monstrous spider can detect. and locate any,
.creatureor object in. contact with the ground within 60 feetor}
any creature or object in contact with the spider's webs atan}
unlimited range.

Vermin Tmuts: Darkvision out to 60 feet. Mindless; no Intelli-|

igence score, and immunity to mind-affecting effects (charms,
{compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).

 
