 

pared spells), his deity (if applicable), and the granted powers of GETTING LOST

his domains.

Spellbook: Optionally (in addition to Spells Prepared), you may
wish to provide the contents of a caster's spellbook in her stat
block. (See the sample NPC wizards.on page. 125 for what this |
looks like.) This information can be important for an NPC whom
.the characters might encounter repeatedly over the course of sev

jeral days (so that she could choose to prepare different spells on |
(different days). }

Possessions: A list of items the creature or character is wearing or |

carrying. }

  

Obviously, any stat block you create for your own use can be as
sparse or as detailed as you need it to be. If all that really matters
for an encounter is.a creature's hit points, AC, and attack bonus,
then those are the only characteristics you need to make note of.
Use. your own stat blocks to streamline the action during play by
,enabling you to have whar you need at your fingertips—but dont)
(feel thar your stat blocks have to provide every conceivable statistic!
Horevery creature (unless that’s what you want them todo, of course). |

In the great outdoors, dragons cross the sky, looking for prey on
the ground, while tribes of hobgoblins stalk their own victims. An
ankheg bursts forth from the earth, and monstrous spiders drop
-from the trees.
Adventures and encounters outdoors can be as interesting as
those underground, but they're different in many ways, Charac-
jters have greater freedom to roam. In a dungeon, characters are
\constrained by the doors and hallways available to them, bur in a
(forest, they can travel in any direction they please.

The open wilderness can be liberating for the players, and it

\demands that the DM be flexible, You don't have to have every
S-foot square of the Abbor-Alz Mountains mapped before the
adventure begins, but you should be able to draw the terrain in
the immediate area when the red dragon roars out of the sky.
Furthermore, you should know—in general terms, at least—what,
the characters will find if they cross that ridge or ford thar stream. |

A second difference between wilderness adventures and dun-|

geon adventures is the possibility of retreat. In a dungeon, the PCs.
can generally retreat and recuperate without too much difficulty,
But the wilderness is by definition far from the comforts of civi-
lization,.so the characters have to rely more on their own
resources. There probably isnt a friendly temple full of healers in
the middle of the trackless swamp the characters are fighting their
way through, so the PC cleric will have to handle all the party's
healing. There's no inn, so some characters will have to stay awake
jand keep watch while the other characters sleep, And if the char-
jacters are beset by foes, they have no.safe place to run to—or at
sleastno safe place nearby <

Finally, wilderness adventures differ from dungeon ones be-

cause the wilderness is often ancillary to the characters’ larger pur-
pose. Wilderness adventures usually involve travel through the
wild to a specific destination, not exploration of the wilderness for
its own sake. A dungeon isa place you travel to, bur the wilderness
isa place you travel through, Characters are less inclined to linger
without a good reason, because they're usually on their way to
someplace else.

For obvious reasons, doors, floors, and walls are fewcand far be-
(tween in the wilderness, Instead the characters will have.to.con-
\tend with everything from towering trees to quicksand as they
jmake their way through the wilderness, The kinds of dangers

-they'll face depend on the terrain (forest, mountain, and so on)
and climate (hot, temperate, or cold).

There are many ways to get lost in the wilderness. Following an
obvious road, trail, or feature such as a stream or shoreline pre-
vents any possibility of becoming lost, but travelers striking off,
{cross-country may become disoriented—especially in conditions
Jof poor visibility or in difficult terrain.

Poor Visibility: Any time characters cannot see at least 60
feet in the prevailing conditions of visibility, they may become
lost. Characters traveling through fog, snow, or a downpour,
smight easily lose the ability to see any landmarks not in their,
immediate vicinity. Similarly, characters traveling at night may.
be at risk, too, depending on the quality of their light sources, the
amount of moonlight, and whether they have darkvision or low-
light vision. +

Difficult Terrain: Any character in forest, moor, hill, or moun-,
tain terrain may become lost if he or she moves away. from.a trail,

4road, stream, or other obvious path or track. Forests are especially
{dangerous because they obscure far-off landmarks and make it
shard to see the sun orstars. +

Chance to Get Lost: If conditions exist that make getting lost
a possibility, the character leading the way-must succeed on a Sur-
vival check or become lost. The difficulty of this check varies
based on the terrain, the visibility conditions, and. whether or not
the character has.a map of the area being traveled through. Refer
to the table below and use the highest DC that applies.

Survival DC Survival DC.
Moor or hill, map 6 Poor visibility |
Mountain, map 8 Mountain, no. map_ aa |
Moor orhill,nomap -10.——Forest 1s

A character with at least 5 ranks in Knowledge (geography).or.
Knowledge (local) pertaining to the area being traveled through |
gains a +2 bonus on this check.

Check once per hour (or portion of an hour) spent in local or
overland movement to see if travelers have become lost. In the
case of a party moving together, only the character leading the
way makes the check. (Tip: Make this check in secret, since the
characters may not realize that they're lost right away.)

Effects of Being Lost: If a party. becomes lost, it is no longer
certain of moving in the direction it intended to travel. Randomly
determine the direction in. which the party actually travels during
each hour of local or overland movement. The characters’ move-
ment continues to be random until they blunder into a landmark
they cant miss, or until they recognize that they are lost and make
an effort.ro regain their bearings,

Recognizing that You're Lost: Once per hour of random travel, each
character in the party may atrempta Survival check (DC 20,1 per
hour of random travel) to recognize that they are no longer certain
of their direction of travel. Some circumstances may make it obvi-
ous that the characters are lost; if they expected to reach a certain
spot within an hour but three or four hours pass by with no sign of
their destination, that's a bad sign.

Setting a New Course: A lost party is also uncertain of determin-
ing in. which direction it should travel in order to reach a desired
objective—even an objective such as “the point where we left the
road and went off into these dratted woods.” Determining the.cor-
rect direction of travel once a party has become lost requires. Sur-
vival check (DC 15, +2 per hour of random travel), Ifa. character!
fails this check, he chooses a random direction as the “correct” |
direction for resuming travel, (Tip: Again, this is a check you}
should make in secret, The lost characters may.think they know |
the way_to travel after regaining their bearings, but could be|
Lentirely wrong again.) -

Once the characters are traveling along their new course, cor-
Lrector incorrect, they may get lost again. If the conditions still
make it possible for travelers.to become lost, check once per hour
