of travel as described in Chance to.Get_Lost, above, to see ifthe

party maintains its new course or begins to move at random again.
Conflicting Directions; It's possible that several characters may
attempt to determine the right direction to proceed after becom-

ing lost. That's just fine. You make a Survival check for each char-,
acter in secret, then tell the players whose characters succeeded |
the correct direction in which to travel, and tell the players whose |
characters failed a random direction they thinks right. (Tip: A few.
extraneous die rolls behind your screen might make it less appar-|
ent which characters are right and which characters are wrong.)

Regaining Your Bearings: There are several ways to become
un-lost. First, if the characters successfully set a new course and
follow it to the destination they're trying ro reach, they're not lost
anymore. Second, the characters through random movement
might run into an_ unmistakable landmark. Third, if conditions
suddenly improve—the fog lifts or the sun comes up—lost char-
acters may attempt to set a new course, as described above, with a

+4 bonus.on the Survival check. Finally, magic such as find the path,

may.make their course clear.

FOREST TERRAIN

Forest terrain can be divided into three categories: sparse,
medium, and dense. An immense forest could have all three cate-
gories within its borders, with more sparse terrain at the outer
edge of the forest and dense forest at its heart.

The table below describes in general terms how likely it is that
a given square has a terrain element in it. You shouldnt roll for
each square, Instead, use the percentages in the table below to
guide the maps you create.

  

Forest TERRAIN FEATURES

 

 

Category of Forest.
Sparse Medium Dense
‘Typical trees 50% 70% 80%
Massive trees. _ 10%. 20%
Light undergrowth 50% 70% 50%
Heavy undergrowth = 20%. 50%

Trees: The most important terrain clement in a forestisthe trees,
obviously. Place a dot in the center of each square that you decide.
has. tree in it, and dont worry about the tree's exact location within.
the square. A creature standing in the same square.as a tree gains a
+2 bonus to Armor Class and a +1 bonus on Reflex saves (these
bonuses dont stack with cover bonuses from other sources), The
presence of a mee doesnt otherwise affect a creature’ fighting space,
because it's assumed that the creature is using the tree to its advan-
tage when it can, The trunk of a typical tree has AC 4, hardness 5,
and 150 hp. A DC 15 Climb check is sufficient to climb a tree.

Medium and dense forests have massive trees as well. These
trees take up an entire square and provide cover to anyone behind
them. They have AC 3, hardness 5, and.600 hp. Like their smaller
counterparts, it takes.a DC 15.Climb check to climb them.

Undergrowth: Vines, roots, and short bushes cover much of the
ground in a forest..A space covered with light undergrowth costs 2
squares of movement to. moye into, and it provides concealment.
Undergrowth increases the DC of Tumble and Move Silently
checks by 2 because the leaves and branches get in the way,

Heavy undergrowth costs 4. squares of movement. to move into,
and it provides concealment with a 30% miss chance. (instead of the
usual 20%). It increases the DC of Tumble and Move Silently checks
by. 5. Heavy undergrowth is easy_to hide in, granting a+5 circum
stance bonus.on Hide checks, Running and charging are impossible.

Squares with undergrowth are often clustered together. Under-

\growsh and trees aren't mutually exclusive; it's common fora
5-foot square. to have both a tree and undergrowth

Forest Canopy: It's common for elves and other forest.

dwellers to live on raised platforms far above the surface floor.

SAMPLE TEMPERATE Forest ENCOUNTER TABLE (EL 6)

4% Encounter ‘Average EL
01-04 1d4+3 dryads 8
05-10 1 treant. $_

, m6 Sth-level lizardfolk druid NPC 7

$ and 2 centaurs

117-19 1 nymph. 7
20-25 1d4 unicorns 7
26-33 1d6+1 wolves z
34-43 14 centaurs 6
44-51 1d4 dire wolves 6
52-61 143 owlbears 6
62-69 13 pixies 6
70-73 ‘1 ghast (ghoul) and 2 ghouls 5

74-79___Sth-level gnoll ranger NPC 5

80-85 1d41 satyrs 5
_86-88 __1d4+1 owlbear skeletons 5
, 89-93 TL wraith 5
494-97 2 black bears. (animal) 4

98-100 1 wereboar (Iycanthrope) 4

For information on how to build your own wilderness encounter
tables, see page 95. a

These wooden platforms generally have rope bridges (described
on page 64) between them, To get to the treehouses, characters.
generally ascend the trees’ branches (Climb DC 15), use rope lad-
ders (Climb DC 0), or take pulley elevators (which.can be made to]
rise a number of feet equal to a Strength check, made each round |
as a full-round action), Creatures on platforms or branches in.a,
forest canopy are.considered to have cover when fighting crea-)
tures on the ground, and in medium or dense forests they_haye|
concealment as well. }

Other Forest Terrain Elements: Fallen logs generally stand.
about 3 feet high and provide cover just as low walls do. They.
cost 5 feet of movement to cross. Forest streams are. generally 5.
to 10 feet wide and no more than 5 feet deep, Pathways wind
through most forests, allowing normal movement and providing
neither cover nor concealment. These paths are less common in
dense forests, but even unexplored forests will have occasional
game trails.

Stealth and Detection ina Forest: In a sparse forest, the max-
imum distance at which a Spot check for detecting the nearby
presence of others can succeed is 3d6x10 feer. In a medium
forest, this distance is 248x10 feet, and in a dense forest it is
2d6x10 feet.

Because any square with undergrowth provides concealment,
it's usually easy for a creature to use the Hide skill in the forest.
Logs and massive trees provide cover, which also makes hiding
possible.

The background noise in the forest. makes Listen checks more
difficult, increasing the DC of the check by 2 per 10 feet, nor 1 (bur
note that Move Silently is also more difficult in undergrowth),

Forest Fires (CR 6)

Most campfire sparks ignite nothing, but if conditions are dry,
winds are strong, or the forest floor is dried out and flammable, a
forest fire.can result, Lightning strikes often set trees afire and.
start forest fires in this way, Whatever the cause of the fire, travel-
ers can get caught in the conflagration.

A forest fire can.be spotted from as far away.as 246x100 feet by |
a character. who makes a Spot check, treating the fire as a Colossal)
creature (reducing the DC by 16), If all characters fail their Spot
checks, the fire moves closer to them. They automatically see it)
when it closes to half the original distance,
Characters who are blinded or otherwise unable to make Spot
\checks can feel the heat of the fire (and thus automatically “spot”
it) when itis 100 feet away.

 
