 

The leading edge of a fire (the downwind side) can advance
faster than a human can run (assume 120 feet per round for winds
of moderate strength). Once a particular portion of the forest is
ablaze, it remains so for 24410 minutes before dying to a smok-

ing smolder, Characters overtaken by a forest fire may find the |
leading edge of the fire advancing away from them faster than,

ithey can keep up, trapping them deeper and deeper in its grasp.
Within the bounds of a forest fire, a.character faces three dan-

(gers: heat damage, catching on fire, and smoke inhalation. 1

Heat Damage: Getting caught within a forest fire is even worse
,than being exposed to extreme heat (see Heat Dangers, page 303).
(Breathing the air causes a character to take 1d6 points of damage
per round (no save). In addition, a. character must make a Forti-

tude save every S rounds (DC 15, +1 per previous check) or take
1d4 points of nonlethal damage. A character who holds his breath
can avoid the lethal damage, but not the nonlethal damage. Those
.svearing heavy clothing or any.sort of armor take a —4 penalty on.

|their saving throws. In addition, those wearing metal armor or|

\coming into contact with very hot metal are affected as if by a heat,
ynetal spell (see page 239 of the Player's Handbook),

Catching on Fire: Characters engulfed in a forest fire are at
risk of catching on fire when the leading edge of the fire overtakes
them, and are then at risk once per minute thereafter (see Catch-
ing on Fire, page 303).

Smoke Inhalation: Forest fires naturally produce a great deal
of smoke. A character who breathes heavy smoke must make a

|Fortirude save each round (DC 15,+1 per previous check) orspend
{thar round choking and coughing. A character who chokes for 2
[consecutive rounds takes 1d6 points of nonlethal damage. Also,
}smoke obscures vision, providing concealment to characters
jwithin it.

MARSH TERRAIN
[Two categories of marsh exist: relatively dry moors and watery
swamps. Both are often bordered by lakes (described in Aquatic
Terrain, below), which effectively are a third category of terrain
found in. marshes.
The table below describes terrain fearures found in marshes.
‘The percentages are indicative of typical marsh terrain and dont

represent the exact chance that a given square will contain the ter-|

rain element.

Marsh Terrain Features

— Marsh Category —

Moor ‘Swamp
Shallow bog 20% 40%
Deep bog 5% 20%,
Light undergrowth 30%6 20%
[Heavyundergrowth 10% 20%

Bogs: If a square is part of a shallow bog, it has deep mud or
standing water of about 1 foot in depth. Ir costs 2 squares of move-
ment to move into a square with a shallow bog, and the DC of
Tumble checks in such a square increases by 2

A square tharis partofadeep bog has roughly 4 feet of standing
water. It costs Medium or larger creatures 4 squares of movement
to move into a square with a deep bog, or characters can swim if
they wish. Small or smaller creatures. must swim to. moye through
a deep bog. Tumbling is impossible ina deep bog.

The water in a deep bog provides cover for Medium or larger
(creatures, Smaller creatures gain improved cover (+8 bonus to AC,
}14.bonus on Reflex saves), Medium or larger creatures can crouch
Las.a.moye action to gain this improved cover. Creatures with this
improved cover take.a—10 penalty on attacks against creatures.
that arent underwater.

Deep bog squares are usually clustered together and sur-,

rounded by an irregular ring of shallow bog squares

Both shallow and deep bogs increase the DC of Move Silently,
checks by 2.

Undergrowth: The bushes, rushes, and other tall grasses in,
marshes function as.undergrowth does in a forest (see above), A.

{square thar is part of a bog does not also have undergrowth,
| Quicksand: Parches of quicksand present a deceptively solid
appearance (appearing as undergrowth or open land) that may
trap careless characters. A character approaching a patch of quick-
sand at a normal pace is. entitled to a DC 8 Survival check to spot,
the danger before stepping in, but charging or running characters,
dont have a chance to detect a hidden bog before blundering in. A
typical patch of quicksand is 20 feet in diameter; the momentum.
of a charging or running character carries him or her 1d2x5 feet
into the quicksand

Effects of Quicksand: Characters in quicksand must make a DC 10
Swim check every round to simply tread water in place, ora. DC 15

_Swim check to move 5 feet in whatever direction is desired. If a

itrapped character fails this check by 5 or more, he sinks below the
jsurface and begins to drown whenever he can no longer hold his

breath (see the Swim skill description, page 84 of the Player's Hand
book, and Drowning, page 304 of this book),

Characters below the surface of a bog may swim back to the sur-
face with a successful Swim check (DC 15, +1 per consecutive
round of being under the surface),

Rescue: Pulling out a character trapped in quicksand .can be dif-
ficult, A rescuer needs a branch, spear haft, rope, or similar rool
that enables him to reach the victim with one end of it. Then he.
must make a DC 15 Strength check to successfully pull the)
victim, and the victim must make a DC 10 Strength check to hold |
onto the branch, pole, or rope. If the victim fails to hold on, he)
must make a DC 15 Swim check immediately to stay above the,
surface. If both checks succeed, the victim is pulled 5 feet closer.
to safety.

Hedgerows: Common in moors, hedgerows are tangles of
stones, soil, and thorny bushes.

Narrow hedgerows function as low walls, and it takes.15 feet of
movement to cross them.

Wide hedgerows are more than § feet tall and take up entire
squares. They provide total cover, just as.a wall does. It takes 4
squares of movement to move through a square with a wide
hedgerow; creatures that succeed ona DC 10 Climb check need
only 2. squares of movement.te move through the square.

SAMPLE TEMPERATE MARSH ENCOUNTER TABLE (EL 9)

a% Encounter Average EL
01-07 1 eleven-headed hydra 10
08-11 143 mohrgs 10
12-15 1 young adult black dragon 9
16-19 1d4+2 Sth-level kobold sorcerer NPCs 3
20-30 143 chuuls 9
31-38 _1d3 medusas 9
39-45 1442 Sth-level goblin rogue NPCs 9
46-53___1d3 spectres 9
54-63 144 will-o'-wisps 9
64-70 __1d4 gray render zombies. 9
n-81 1 gray render 8g
82-91 1 hag covey (sea hag, annis, green hag) 8
92-97 2d4 harpies 8
98-100___1 shambling mound 6

Other Marsh Terrain Elements: Some marshes, particularly ,
swamps. have trees just as forests do, usually clustered in small.
stands, Paths lead across many marshes, winding to avoid bog!
areas. As in forests, paths allow normal movement and dont pro-
ivide the concealment that undergrowth does,

Stealth and Detection in a Marsh: In a moor, the maximum
distance at which a Spot check for detecting the nearby presence
