 

Dense Rubble: The ground is covered with rocks of all sizes. It
costs 2 squares of movement to enter a square with dense rubble.
The DC of Balance and Tumble checks on dense rubble increases
by 5, and the DC of Move Silently checks increases by +2.

Rock Wall: A vertical plane of stone, rock walls require DC 25.
Climb checks to ascend. A typical rock wall is 2d4x10 feet tall in,
rugged mountains and 2d8x10 feet tall in forbidding mountains,
|Rock walls are drawn on the edges of squares, not in the squares |
ithemselves,

Cave Entrance: Found in cliff and steep slope squares and next,
to.rock walls, cave entrances are typically between 5 and 20 feet
wide and 5 feet deep. Beyond the entrance, a cave could be any-
thing from a simple chamberto the entrance to an elaborate dun-
geon. Caves used as monster lairs typically have 1d3 rooms that
are 1d4X10 feet across.

Other Mountain Terrain Features: Most alpine meadows
begin above the tree line, so trees and other forest elements are
}rare_in. the mountains. Mountain terrain can include active}
|stteams (5 to.10 feet wide and no more than 5 feet deep) and. dry,

\streambeds (treat as a trench 5 to 10 feet across), Particularly.
high-altitude areas tend to be colder than the lowland areas that
surround them, so they may be covered in ice sheets (described

below).

Stealth and Detection in Mountains: As a guideline, the
maximum distance in mountain terrain at which a Spot check for
detecting the nearby presence of others can succeed is 4d10x10
feet. Certain peaks and ridgelines afford much better vantage

\points, of course, and twisting valleys and canyons have much
|shorter spotting distances. Because there's little vegetation t0
obstruct line of sight, the specifics on your map_are your best
| guide for the range at which an encounter could begin.

Asin hills terrain, a ridge or peak provides.enough caver to hide
,from anyone below the high point.

Ir’s easier to hear faraway sounds in the mountains. The DC of
Listen checks increases by 1 per 20 feet between listener and
source, not per 10 feet.

SamPce COLD MOUNTAINS ENCOUNTER Tasie (EL 11)

4% Encounter Average EL_|
01-04 1 beholder a3: oc]
05-07 _1 young adult silver dragon 13
08-19 143 10th-level half-orc barbarian NPCs 2
20-29. 1 devourer u
30-47 143 frost giants n
48-58 __1d4 greater shadows n
59-75 1 troll hunter n
76-88 __0th-level drow wizard NPC n

i and 1 shield guardian

189-100 2d4 trolls 9

Avalanches (CR 7)
The combination of high peaks and heavy snowfalls means that
avalanches are a deadly peril in many mountainous areas. While
avalanches of snow_and ice are common, it's also possible to have
an avalanche of rock and soil.

An avalanche can be spotted from as far away as 1410x500 feet
downslope by a character who makes a DC 20 Spot check, treat-
ing the avalanche as a Colossal creature. If all characters fail their
Spot checks to determine the encounter distance, the avalanche

«moves closer to them, and they automatically become aware of it
when it closes to half the original distance.

| It's possible to hear an avalanche coming even if you canttsee it.

Under optimum conditions (no other loud noises occurring), a

,character who makes a DC 15 Listen check can hear the avalanche
or landslide when itis 1d6x500 feet away, This check might havea
DC of 20, 25,.or higher in conditions where hearing is difficult,
(such as in the middle of a thunderstorm), }

A landslide or.avalanche consists of two distinct areas: the bury
zone (in the direct path of the falling debris) and the slide zone,
(the area the debris spreads out to encompass), Characters in.the
bury zone always take damage from the avalanche; characters in
athe slide zone may be able to get out of the way,

Characters in the bury zone take 8d6 points of damage, or half
that amount if they make a DC.15 Reflex save. They are subse-
quently buried (see below).

Characters in the slide zone take 3d6 points of damage, orno damage ,
.ifthey make a DC 15 Reflex save. Those who fail their saves are buried.

Buried characters take 1dé6 points of nonlethal damage per!
minute. If a buried character falls unconscious, he or she must
make a DC 15 Constitution check or take 1d6 points of lethal
damage each minute thereafter until freed or dead,

The typical avalanche has a width of 1d6x100 feet, from.one.
edge of the slide zone to the opposite edge. The bury zone in the
,center of the avalanche is half as wide as the avalanche’s full width.

[Ho determine the precise location of characters in the path of an
javalanche, roll 1d6x20; the result is the number of feet from the.
‘center of the path taken by the bury zone to the center of the
party's location, Avalanches of snow and ice advance ata speed of
500 feet per round, and rock avalanches travel ata speed of 250.
feet per round.

Mountain Travel
High altitude can be extremely fatiguing—or sometimes
deadly—to creatures thar arent used to it. Cold becomes extreme,
and the lack of oxygen in the air can wear down even the most,
hardy of warriors.

Acclimated Characters: Creatures accustomed to high alti-
tude generally fare better than lowlanders, Any creature with anJ
Environment entry.that includes mountains is considered native,
to the area, and acclimated to the high altitude. Characters canalso
acclimate themselves by living at high altitude for a month. Char-
acters who spend more than two months away from the moun-
tains must reacclimate themselves when they return,

Undead, constructs, and other creatures that do not breathe are
immune to altitude effects.

Altitude Zones: In general, mountains present three possible
altitude bands: low pass, low peak/high pass, and high peak.

Low Pass (lower than. $,000 feet): Most travel in low mountains
takes place in low passes, azone.consisting largely of alpine mead-
ows and forests. Travelers may find the going difficult (which is
reflected in the movement modifiers for traveling through moun-
tains), bur the altitude itself has no game effect.

Low. Peak or High Pass (5,000 to 15,000 feet): Ascending to the high-
est slopes of low mountains, or most normal travel through high
mountains, falls into this category, All nonacclimated creatures
labor to breathe in the thin airat this altitude. Characters must
succeed on a Fortitude save each hour (DC 15, +1 per previous
check) or be fatigued. The fatigue ends when the character de-
scends to.an alritude with more air.

Acclimated characters do not have to attempt the Fortitude save.

High Peak (more than 15,000 fect): The highest mountains exceed
20,000 feet in height, At these elevations, creatures are subject to
both high altitude fatigue (as described above) and altitude sick-
ness, whether or nat they're acclimated to high altitudes, }

Altitude sickness represents long-term oxygen deprivation, and.
it affects mental and physical ability scores, Aftereach 6-hour
period a character spends at an altitude of over 15,000 feet, he.

smust succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 15, +1 per previous check).
or take.1 point of damage to all ability scores.__ 4

Creatures acclimated to high altitude receive a +4 competence |

bonus on their saving throws to resist high altitude effects and
jaltitude sickness, but eventually even seasoned mountaineers
must.abandon these dangerous elevations.
