 

TABLE 3-23: RANDOM WEATHER

4% Weather Cold Climate Temperate Climate! Desert

01-70 Normal weather Cold, calm Normal for season* Hot, calm
71=80___Abnormal weather Heat wave (01-30) or cold snap (31-100) Heat wave (01-50) or cold snap (51-100) Hot, windy
81-90 _ Inclement weather Precipitation (snow) Precipitation (normal for season) Hot, windy
91-99, Storm. Snowstorm Thunderstorm, snowstorm? Duststorm
100 Powerful storm Blizzard Windstorm, blizzard$, hurricane, tornado Downpour

1 Temperate includes forest, hills.

marsh, mountains, plains, and warm aquatic.

2 Winter is cold, summer is warm, spring and autumn are temperate. Marsh regions are slightly warmer in winter.

Precipitation: Roll d's to determine whether the precipita-_

}tion is fog (01-30), rain/snow (31-90), or sleet/hail (91-00).
Snow and sleet occur only when the temperature is 30° Fahren-
heit or below. Most precipitation lasts for 2d4 hours. By contrast,
hail lasts for only 1d20 minutes but usually accompanies 1d4
hours of rain,

Storm (Duststorm/Snowstorm/Thunderstorm): Wind speeds are

jsevere (30 to 50 mph) and visibility is cut by three-quarters.
| Storms last for.2d4—1 hours. See Storms, below, for more details, |
‘Warm: Between 60° and 8S* Fahrenheit during the day, 10 to 20)

‘Gegrees colder at night.
Windy: Wind speeds are moderate to strong (10 to 30 mph); see
Table 3-24 on the following page.

Rain, Snow, Sleet, and Hail
Bad weather frequently slows or halts travel and makes it virtu-
sally impossible to navigate from one. spot to another. Torrential
\downpours and blizzards obscure vision as effectively as a
idense fog,

Most precipitation is rain, but in cold conditions it can manifest
jas snow, sleet, or hail. Precipitation of any_kind followed by acold
\snap in which the temperature dips from above freezing to 30° F
,or below may produce ice (see Cold Dangers, page 302)

Rain; Rain reduces visibility ranges by half, resulting in a +
penalty.on Spor and Search checks, It has the same effect on
flames, ranged weapon attacks, and Listen checks as.severe wind

see the following page).

Snow: Falling snow has the same effects on visibility, ranged,
weapon attacks, and skill checks as rain, and it costs 2 squares of]
movement to enter a snow-covered square. A day of snowfall

leaves 1d6 inches of snow on the ground.

Heavy Snow; Heavy snow has the same effects as normal snow-
fall, but also restricts visibiliry as fog does (see Fog, below). A day
of heavy. snow leaves 1d¢ feet of snow on the ground, and it costs
4 squares of movement to enter asquare covered with heavy snow.
Heavy.snow accompanied by strong or severe winds may result in
snowdrifts 1d4xS feet deep, especially in and around objects big

senough to deflect the wind—a cabin or a large tent, for instance.

There is.a 10% chance that a heayy. snowfall is accompanied by

jlightning (see Thunderstorm, below).

Snow has the same effect on flames as moderate wind (see the fol-
lowing page}

Sleet: Essentially frozen rain, sleet has the same effect as rain
while falling (except thar its chance to extinguish protected
flames is 75%) and the same effect as snow once on the ground.

Hail; Hail does not reduce visibility, but the sound of falling hail
makes Listen checks more difficult (—+ penalty). Sometimes (5%
chance) hail can become large enough to deal 1 point of lethal
damage (per storm) to anything in the open. Once.on the ground,

hail has the same effect on movement as snow,

 

Storms
The combined effects of precipitation (or dust) and wind thar ac-
{company all storms reduce visibility ranges by.three quarters,
imposing a—8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Storms

make ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using!
siege weapons, which have a—4 penalty on attack rolls. They auto-|

{matically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected }
flames. They cause_protected flames, such as those.of lanterns, to.
dance wildly and have a $0% chance to extinguish these lights, See
Table 3-24; Wind Effects for possible consequences.fo creatures |
caught outside without shelter during such.a.storm, Storms are,
divided into the following three types,

Duststorm (CR 3): These desert storms differ from other storms
jin that they have no precipitation. Instead, a duststorm blows fine
\grains of sand that obscure vision, smother unprotected flames,.
jand can even choke protected flames (50% chance). Most dust-

storms are accompanied by severe winds (see the following page)
and leave behind a deposit of 1d6 inches of sand. However, there.
isa 10% chance for a greater duststorm tobe accompanied by
windstorm-magnitude winds (see Table 3-24; Wind Effects
These greater duststorms deal 1d3 points.of nonlethal damage
each round to anyone caught out in the open without shelter and
also pose a choking hazard (see Drowning, page 304—except that.
jacharacter with ascarf or similar protection across her mouth and,
nose does not begin to choke until after a number of rounds equal!
to 10 x her Constitution score). Greater duststorms leave 2d3—1
feet of fine sand in their wake.

Snowstorm: In addition 10 the wind and precipitation common.
to other storms, snowstorms leave 1dé6 inches of snow on the.
ground afterward.

Thunderstorm: In addition to wind and precipitation (usually
tain, but sometimes also hail), thunderstorms are accompanied
by lightning that can pose a hazard to characters without proper
shelter (especially those in metal armor). As a rule of thumb,
assume one bolt per minute for.a t-hour period at the center of
the storm. Each bolt causes electricity damage equal to 1d10
eight-sided dice. One in ten.thunderstorms is accompanied by a
tornado (see below),

Powerful Storms: Very high winds and torrential precipita-
tion reduce visibility ro zero, making Spor, Search, and Listen
checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible. Unprotected
flames are automatically extinguished, and protected flames have
2 75% chance of being doused. Creatures caught in the area must
make a DC 20 Fortitude save or face the effects based on the size of
the creature (see Table 3-24), Powerful storms are divided into the
following four types.

Windstorm: While accompanied by little or no precipitation,
windstorms can cause considerable damage simply through the
force of their wind.

Blizzard: The combination of high winds, heavy snow (typically
1d3 feet), and bitter cold (see Cold Dangers, page 302) make bliz-
zards deadly for all who are unprepared for them.

Hurricane: In addition to very high winds and heavy rain, hurri-
canes are accompanied by floods (see page 93). Most atseralstos
activity is impossible under such conditions.

Tornado: One in ten thunderstorms is accompanied by a

jtornado,.
Fog
| Whether in the form of a low-lying cloud or a mist rising from the|
,gtound, fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5
(feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against
them haye.a 20% miss chance)
