Tape 3-24; WIND EFFECTS

Wind Wind Ranged Attacks
Force Speed Normal/Siege Weapons'
Light 0-10 mph -|-
Moderate 11-20 mph eee

Strong 21-30 mph -Y—

Severe 31-50 mph ys
Windstorm 51-74 mph Impossible/-4
Hurricane 75-174 mph Impossible/-8
Tornado 175-300 mph Impossible/impossible

Wind Effect Fort Save
Creature Size? on Creatures oc
Any None
Any None —
Tiny or smaller Knocked down 10
Small or larger None.
Tiny Blown away 1s
Small Knocked down
Medium Checked
Large or larger None
‘Small or smaller Blown away ty
Medium Knocked down.
Large or Huge Checked
Gargantuan or Colossal None
Medium or smaller Blown away 20
Large Knocked down.
Huge Checked
Gargantuan or Colossal None
Large or smaller Blown away 30
Huge Knocked down
Gargantuan or Colossal Checked

1 The siege weapon category includes ballista and catapult attacks as well as boulders tossed by giants.
2 Flying or airborne creatures are treated as one size category smaller than their actual size, so an airborne Gargantuan dragon Is treated as Huge

for purposes of wind effects.

Checked: Creatures are unable to move forward against the force of the wind. Flying creatures are blown back 1d6xS feet.

Knocked Down: Creatures are knocked prone by the force of the wind. Flying creatures are instead blown back 1d6x10 feet.

Blown Away: Creatures on the ground are knocked prone and rolled 1d4x10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet. Flying
creatures are blown back 2d6x10 feet and take 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting.

Winds
The wind can create a stinging spray of sand or dust, fan.a large
fire, heel over a small boat, and blow gases or vapors away. If pow-
erful enough, it can even knock characters down (see Table 3-24:
Wind Effects), interfere with ranged attacks. or impose penalties
on some skill checks.
Light Wind: A gentle breeze, having little or no game effect.

Moderate Wind: A steady wind with a 50% chance of extinguish-,

ing small, unprotected flames, such as candles,

Strong Wini
flames (candles, torches, and the like). Such gusts impose a=2
penalty on ranged attack rolls and on Listen checks.

Severe Wind: In addition to automatically extinguishing any
unprotected flames, winds of this magnitude cause protected
flames (such as those of lanterns).to. dance wildly and have a 50%
chance of extinguishing these lights. Ranged weapon attacks and
Listen checks are at a -4 penalty. This is the velocity of wind pro-
duced by a.gust of wind spell.

Windstorm: Powerful enough to bring down branches if not
whole trees, windstorms automatically extinguish unprotected
flames.and have a 75%.chance of blowing out protected flames,
such as those of lanterns, Ranged weapon attacks are impossible,
and even siege weapons have a—t penalty on attack rolls. Listen
checks are at a—8 penalty due.to the howling of the wind.

Hurricane-Foree Wind: All flames are extinguished. Ranged at-
tacks are impossible (except with siege weapons, which have a -8
penalty on attack rolls), Listen checks are impossible; All charac-
ters can hear is the roaring of the wind. Hurricane-force winds
often fell trees.

Tornado (CR 10): All flames are extinguished, All ranged attacks
are impossible (even with siege weapons), as are Listen checks.

Ulnstead of being blown away (see Table 3-24: Wind Effects), char-
acters in close proximity to a tornado who fail their Fortitude
lsayes are sucked toward the tornado, Those who come in contact
with the actual funnel cloud are picked up and whirled around for

 

idi0.rounds, taking 6dé points of damage per round, before being |

violently expelled (falling damage may apply). While a tornados

Gusts thar automatically extinguish unprotected |

rotational speed can be as great as 300 mph, the funnel itself,
moves forward aan average of 30 mph (roughly 250 feet per.
round). A tornado uproots trees, destroys buildings, and causes.
other similar forms of major destruction.

RANDOM WILDERNESS ENCOUNTERS
When setting out to generate random encounters for.an adven-
ture that involves travel through the wilderness, the first thing
you need to do is determine the chance for an encounter to
happen in a given area. Refer to the table below, determining the
type of area in question and then_rolling d% at the end of every
hour the PCs spend in the area to see if an encounter occurs.

CHANCE OF WILDERNESS ENCOUNTER
Type of Area d% Chance
Desolate/wasteland 5% chance per hour
Frontier/wilderness 8% chance per hour
Verdant/civilized area 10% chance per hour
Heavily traveled 1236 chance per hour

Building a Wilderness Encounter Table

In this section are all the tools you need to build encounter tables
suited to various regions of your. campaign world. These tools in-
clude Table 3-25: Wilderness Encounter Lists, in which creatures
from the Monster Manual are grouped according to the enyiron-
ment where they can typically be encountered. The lists include
all creatures from the Monster Manual except for those that are.
found only underground (see the earlier section of this chapter, ,
where dungeon encounter tables are provided), those that are |
native to. a plane.of existence other than the Material Plane (see,
Adventuring on Other Planes, beginning on page 147), and some}
creatures with low CRs that are usually not appropriate for)
encounters (such as the toad, the lizard, andthe monkey).

The sample encounter tables presented in the section on terrain
features (beginning with forest terrain on page 87) were con-

\structed using the procedure described below. Refer to those

tables when you begin building your own.

 
