 

CR Warm Marshes 20. Wyrm black dragon 1. Gnoll
1/2 Stirge 22. Great wyrm black dragon 1 Mule (animal)
2. Crocodile (animal) 2__Cheetah (animal)
2. Shocker lizard CR Warm Mountains 3. Ankheg
3. Wyrmling black dragon 4 Wyrmiing red dragon 3. Lion. {animal)
4 Giant crocodile (animal) 5 Very young red dragon 4) Rhinoceros (animal)
4 Very young black dragon 7 Young red dragon S_Dire lion
5 Young black dragon 8 Young adult red dragon skeleton 5 Wyrmling gold dragon
5 Manticore 9. Roc 1_Nery young gold dragon
6 Five-headed pyrohydra 10_Juvenile red dragon 7 Elephant (animal)
7_Juvenile black dragon 10 Fire giant 8 Tyrannosaurus (dinosaur)
7 Sixcheaded pyrohydra 13. Young adult red dragon 9. Young gold dragon
8_Seven-headed pyrohydra 13. Storm giant 11_Juvenile gold dragon
3. Young adult black dragon 15_ Adult red dragon 14 Young adult gold dragon
9 Eight-headed pyrohydra 18 Mature adult red dragon 16 Adult gold dragon
10 Nine-headed pyrohydra 20 Old red dragon 19. Mature adult gold dragon
10 Rakshasa 21. Very old red dragon 21_Old gold dragon
11 Adult black dragon 23. Ancient red dragon 22. Very old gold dragon
11_Tencheaded pyrohydra 24 Wyrm red dragon 24. Ancient gold dragon
12. Eleven-headed pyrohydra 26 Great wytm.red dragon 25 Wyrm gold dragon

13. Twelve-headed pyrohydra
14 Mature adult black dragon CR Warm Plains
16 Old black dragon.

18 Very old black dragon

19 Ancient black dragon 1/2 Halfling

To create a wilderness encounter table, first decide what you
want the average Encounter Level to be. Then look at the relevant

\list, choosing monsters with Challenge Ratings thar fall in a range
from (EL ~ 6) to (EL + 2). Supplement these choices with selec-

jtions from other sources, such as these:

\¢_The Any Wilderness Environment list, which includes wide-

ranging creatures,

The lists for other climates (adding a few warm forest creatures

to your temperate forest, for example).

Some NPCs relevant to the area (dwarf barbarians in the moun-

tains, perhaps, or elven druids in the forest).

Now build your encounter table line by line. Strive for some EL.
variety on the table, Just as you wouldnt design a dungeon where |
every single room is exactly EL 7, you shouldn't create a wilder-)
ness table where every entry is EL 7. +

Ifa monster's Challenge Rating is higher than your target EL,
the same number, or 1 lower than your target EL, it can go onto
the table as a solitary monster, If your target EL is 8, you can build
an entry that simply reads “Treant,” because treants are CR 8.

For monsters that have a CR significantly lower than your target
EL youll want the encounter to feature more than one of those crea-
tures, Table 3-1 (page 49) tells you how.many. monsters you need for

{an encounter of a given EL. Convert that number to an appropriate

Ldie range for the encounter table. Forexample, if you know you want

jan encounter with five gargoyles (individually CR 4) to make an EL
Sencounter, youlll add a “2d4 gargoyles” entry to the encounter table,
because rolling 2d¢ yields an average result of 5.

The organization entries for the creatures in the Monster Manual
can be a big help, They tell you how likely a monster is to congregate
with others of its kind; allips are almost always solitary, for example,
so you don't want a “2d6 allips” entry.on the encounter table, The
organization entries also indicate combinations of monsters that
make an effective encounter. Ertins often keep brown bears as pets,

,so an entry of “Ettin and 1d2 brown bears" would be appropriate.

Once you have every_entry for your encounter table ready, you
\need only assign percentages to the table. You can rigorously adjust

ithe percentages to ensure that the encounter table yields an average

JEL exactly equal to your target EL, but frankly it isn't necessary.
Simply.assign larger chances to the lines you know generate en-
counters close to your target EL, and assign smaller chances to the!
lines that have EL significantly higher or lower than your target.

27. Great wyrm gold dragon
25. Wyrm gold dragon

1/3 Giant fire beetle (vermin) 27. Great wyrm gold dragon
11/2 Baboon (animal)

Cities are often the places where characters spend_time berween/
adventures. But urban areas are themselves rich in many of the
elements that make for an exciting adventure: chases through,
winding streets, duels in the courtyard, and intrigue during the
king's banquet. The “cobblestone jungle” of a metropolis can be.as
dangerous as any dungeon.

At first glance, a city is much like a dungeon, made up of walls,
doors, rooms, and corridors. Adventures that take place in cities
have two salient differences from their dungeon counterparts,
however. Characters have greater access to resources, and they
must contend with law enforcement.

Access to Resources: A friendly temple of healers might be
just down the street, and a locate object scroll can be had on a quick
shopping trip. Unlike in dungeons and the wilderness, characters
can_buy and sell gear quickly in.a city. A large city or metropolis
probably has high-level NPCs and experts in obscure fields of
knowledge who can provide assistance and decipher clues. And
when the PCs are battered and bruised, they can retreat to the
comfort of a room at the inn.

The freedom to retreat and ready access to the marketplace
means thar the players have a greater degree of control over the
pacing of an urban adventure, They can obtain healing and replen-
ish their resources after every encounter, if they wish. For this
reason, you have the freedom.to use higher-level encounters
against them than you would in.a different setting. In a city, you
can provide challenges one or two Encounter Levels higher than
the PCs would face ina dungeon. And conveniently, cities are full
of high-level NPCs that provide those greater challenges,

Law Enforcement: The other key distinctions benween adven-,
turing in a.city and delying into a dungeon is that a dungeon is,.
almost by definition, a lawless place where the only Jaw is that of|
the jungle: Kill or be killed. A city, on the other hand, is held ro-|

gether by a.code of laws, many of which are explicitly designed to,

prevent the sort of behavior that adventurers engage in all the)

time: killing and looting.

Even so, most cities’ laws recognize monsters.as.a threat to the

stability the city relies on, and prohibitions about murder rarely
\apply.to_monsters such as aberrations or evil outsiders. Most evil

humanoids, however, are typically protected by the same laws
