Rooftops: Getting to a roof usually requires climbing a wall (see TABLE 3-27: BUILDINGS

the Walls section, page 59), unless the character can reach a roof by
jumping down from a higher window, balcony, or bridge. Flat roofs,
common only in warm climates (accumulated snow can cause a flat
roof to collapse), are easy.to.run across. Moving along the peak of a.
roof requires a DC 20 Balance check. Moving onan angled roof sur-
face without changing altitude (moving parallel to the peak,.in.
\other words) requires a DC 15 Balance check. Moving up and down,
iacross the peak of a roof requires a. DC 10 Balance check. }
Eventually a character runs out of roof, requiring a long jump}
across to the next roof or down.to the ground. The distance to the
next closest roof is usually 1d3x5 feet horizontally, but the roof
jacross the gap is equally likely to be 5 feet higher,s feet lower, or the
same height. Use the guidelines on page 77 of the Player’s Handbook
(a horizontal jumps peak height is one-fourth of the horizontal dis-
tance) to determine whether.a character can make a jump.

Sewers: In the baseline D&D game world, sewers are much
,more prevalent than they were in real-world medieval times. To}
|get into the sewers, most characters open a grate (a full-round|
laction) and jump down 10 feet. Sewers are built exactly like dun:

geons, except that they're much more likely to have floors that are
slippery or covered with water (treat as a shallow pool, described
on page 64). Sewers are also similar to dungeons in terms of crea-
tures liable to be encountered therein (see the dungeon encounter
tables earlier in this chapter), Some cities were built atop the ruins
of older civilizations, so their sewers sometimes lead to treasures
jand dangers from a bygone age.

City Buildings
Most city buildings fall into three categories. The majority of
buildings in the city are two to five stories high, built side by side
to form long rows separated by secondary. or main streets, These
,xow houses usually have businesses.on the ground_floor, with
Loffices or apartments above.
Inns, successful businesses, and large warehouses—as well as
millers, tanners, and other businesses that require extra space—
are generally large, free-standing buildings with up to five stories.
Finally, small residences, shops, warehouses, or storage sheds,
are simple, one-story wooden buildings, especially if they're in |
poorer neighborhoods, }
Most city buildings are. made of a. combination of stone or clay.
brick (on the lower one or two stories) and timbers (for the upper
stories, interior walls, and floors). Roofs are a mixture of boards,
thatch, and slates, sealed with pitch.
A ypical lowerstory wall is 1 foot thick, with AC 3, hardness 8,
90 hp,and a Climb DC of 25.
Upper-story walls are 6 inches thick, with AC 3, hardness 5, 60
hp, anda Climb DC of 21,

Exterior doors on most buildings are good wooden doors (see
\page.61) that are usually kept locked, except on public buildings
such as shops and taverns,

Buying Buildings
Characters might want to buy.their own buildings or even con-
struct their own castle. Use the prices in Table 3-27 below directly,
or asa guide when you extrapolate costs for more exotic structures.

City Lights

Ifa city has main thoroughfares, they are lined with lanterns
hanging at a height of 7 feet from building awnings. These
lanterns are spaced 60 feet apart, so their illumination is all but
\continuous, Secondary streets and alleys.are not lit; it is common
\for citizens to hire lantern-bearers when going out after dark.
Alleys can be dark places even in daylight, thanks to the shad-
ows of the tall buildings that surround them. A dark alley in day-
light is rarely dark enough to afford true concealment, but it.can.

lend.a+2.circumstance bonus on Hide checks.

Item Cost i

Simple house 1,000 gp
Grand house 5,000 gp
| Mansion 100,000 gp
‘Tower 50,000 gp
Keep 150,000 gp
Castle 500,000 gp
Huge castle 1,000,000 gp
Moat with bridge 50,000 gp.

[Simple House: This one- to three-room house is made.of wood and

has a thatched roof.

Grand House: This four- to ten-room house is made of wood and has
a thatched roof,

Mansion: This ten- to twenty-room residence has two.or three stories.
and is made of wood and brick. It has a slate roof.

JTower: This round or square, three-level tower is made of stone.

iKeep: This fortified stone building has fifteen to twenty-five rooms.
sCastle: A castle is a keep surrounded by a.15-foot stone wall with four.
4— towers, The wall is 10 feet thick.

‘Huge Castle: A huge castle is.a particularly large keep with numerous.
associated buildings (stables, forge, granaries. and so on) and.an.
elaborate 20-foot-high wall that creates bailey and courtyard areas.
The wall has six towers and is 10 feet thick

Moot with Bridge: The moat is.15 feet deep and 30 feet wide. The
bridge may be a wooden drawbridge or a permanent stone structure.

URBAN ENCOUNTERS }

The random encounter table, a staple of dungeon and wilderness.
adventuring, functions differently in an urban setting where “en:
counters” are the norm rather than the exception. Seeing people.
on the streets of a.city is constant and expected, and almost.every|
site in a city has dozens of potential encounters nearby. In.the,
wilderness, it's unusual to encounter another creature, such as a
manticore flying overhead or an ankheg erupting fromthe earth
to attack. In contrast, it would be strange to not see other people
around in an urban setting.

Because cities are by their nature crowded, most urban en-
counter tables are event-based, not site-based. An encounter in the
city means something significant, something worthy of the char-
acters’ attention. Seeing merchants hawking their wares in a market-
place district may be interesting, but it is not an encounter.

Each day that characters spend in a. city, make an encounter
check 10 determine whether an event occurs that demands their
attention. An encounter check is a. d20 roll, modified by circum-
stances as shown on the table below. (Apply one modifier from
each section of the table, as applicable.) A result of 20 or higher
indicates that an encounter occurs.

If an encounter is indicated, roll on Table 3-28. On this roll,
apply the same modifier used to determine if an encounter occurs
(a result greater than 20 is possible). Descriptions and definitions
of the entries on Table 3-28 follow.

Admirer; A friendly character (usually an NPC with class levels)
with a CR equal to 2 less than the party level approaches the charac
ters with a request. She may wish to hire the characters, tell them a
rumor she heard, or simply tag along as they explore the city.

Animal: The characters are set upon by animals in some way.
This challenge could be anything from thieving monkeys toa,
rampaging escaped circus bear. |

Brawl in Progress: This can be the classic barroom brawl,

\(either in. an actual barroom or spilled out onto the.street),a battle}

between rival factions, families, or gangs in the city (think Romeo,
and Juliet), or a fight berween city guards and criminals trying 10,

\escape, The characters could just be witnesses, they could get hit
by stray arrow fire, they could be grabbed and used as cover or hos-
ages by one side, or they could be mistaken for members of one

group and attacked by the other,

 
