 

Ursan Encounter CHECK MODIFIERS.

Circumstance Modifier
City Size
Small city +1
Large city +2
Metropolis +3
‘Characters’ Status/Activity
Characters are unusually anonymous! 2
Characters are unusually famous? +2
Characters are laying low. =2
Characters are looking for action +2
Characters’ Party Level
1s +0
6-10 +
n-18 +2
16 oF higher 3

} Use this modifier ifthe characters are not as famous in this city as
|_ other characters of their level would be. Perhaps they're new to the
|area. or they simply keep their activities quiet. Never apply this
modifier to characters of lower than 6th level.

2 Use this modifier if the characters are more widely known in this city
than other characters of their level would be. Perhaps they have
been publicly recognized for saving the mayor, or their faces are on
wanted posters all over town.

TaBLe 3-28: URBAN ENCOUNTERS

20. Encounter 420 Encounter
0 Bullies 14 Brawl/street fight/gang
1 Mugeers war in progress
.2 Guard harassment 15__ Robbery in. progress
13. Pickpockets 16 Escaped prisoner
4 Spectacle 17 Monster
,5__ Found item, 18 Fire (building, ship, etc.)
+6 — Lost child 19. Construction accident
7___ Corpse 20 Spell gone awry
8 Animal 21__ Prominent personage
9 Overturned/runaway cart 22. Mistaken identity
10. District-specific encounter 23 Guards need help.
11__ District-specific encounter 24 Employment offer
12. Contest in progress 25+ Admirer

13 Duel/mageduel in —_t

progress

Bullies: These may.be ordinary. street thugs, but such charac-
ters never target those who look tougher than. they. Bullies could
also be seasoned adventurers who look down on low-level charac-
ters. A group of bullies always outnumbers the characters by at

sleast. two (+50% is a good rule of thumb), and each bully hasa CR

Tequal to 1 less than the party level. For example, a group of four
{player characters averaging 6th level would be targeted by a group
of six bullies, each with a CR of 5 (Sth-level adventurers or 6th-
level warriors), for an EL 10 encounter. A single 7th-level charac-
ter might find himself the target of three bullies of CR ¢ (6th-level
adventurers or 7th-level warriors). which is an EL 9 encounter. To
be meaningful, bullies have to be tough; run-of-the-mill thugs are
described in the Muggers entry below,

Construction Accident; One or more of the characters are po-
tentially struck by a falling object, fall through unsafe scaffolding,
or face a similar mishap, Run this encounter by adapting a trap

from the list that begins on page 70.

Contest in Progress; The characters are invited to participate
jin.or judge a contest of some sort. The match could be anything
{from _a foot race to an intellectual rest ro a. drinking competition.

Corpse: The characters find a dead body. The corpse could be
ithe victim of a crime, mishap, of strange circumstance.

District-Specific Encounter: Use an encounter that fits the,
district.of the city in which the characters are currently located.

For example, a PC might be confronted with a press gang in the

waterfront district or a young foreigner eager to test his aie

matic immunity.in the embassy district. \
Duel in Progress: The characters witness a duel—either a tra-

ditional duel with swords or one involving spellcasters.

Employment Offer: The characters meet someone who offers
them work. The job. depends.on their overall circumstances and
on the nature of the employer.

Escaped Prisoner: Someone breaks free from the custody of |

the watch and flees past the PCs. They can help apprehend the |

prisoner or help her escape. The prisoner typically has a.CR 1d6|
lower than the characters’ party level.

Fire (building, ship, etc.): Fire is a danger that threatens the
whole. city, Treat a fire in the city as a forest fire for purposes of |
how fast it moves (see page 87)

Found Item: The characters find an item of some value: jewelry

ora map, for example. They can make use of it, or try to find the
\rightful owner. Or perhaps the rightful owner will try to find them.

Guard Harassment: The PCs encounter a guard officer who.

Lwants to throw his weight around. The characters can use their

social skills to defuse the situation,.or they can resort to magic. or
force of arms if the situation degenerates. Guards typically have
individual CRs.of 1 to 3. Dealing with an abusive guard captain
should be treared as an encounter with at least some of the guards
in the gatehouse, because they're backing the captain up. The char
acters successfully overcome this encounter if they end the har-
assment, no matter how they do so.

Guards Need Help: The characters get.a request from someone |
affiliated with law enforcement in the city, The request.could be as}
simple as.a request for some healing or divination magic, or it}
could be as complex as a plea to solve a series of grisly murders,
that have the city’s detectives baffled.

Lost Child: A parent or other caregiver seeks help from the,
PCs. The child might be simply lost, or perhaps is the victim of a
more sinister fate.

Mistaken Identity: One or more of the PCs are mistaken for
someone else—often someone famous or infamaus.

Monster: A creature (one appropriate to the terrain surround-
ing the city) rampages through the city, and its path crosses that of
the characters,

Muggers: Some thugs have bitten off more than they can chew
when they decide to pick on the characters. There's roughly one
mugger for every PC, and each has a CR of 4 to 6 less than the
party level.

Runaway Cart: A team of horses pulling a wagon is racing pel.
mell through the city streets. The characters must avoid the horses
(an overrun attack). If they can stop the wagon, the owner (who is
running behind the cart) will be grateful.

Pickpockets: One or more rogues tries to steal from the PCs. A
pickpocket has rogue levels equal.to 2 less than the party level and
a Sleight of Hand modifier equal to 4 more than the party level,

Prominent Personage: The characters meet an important
political, religious, mercantile,.or military NPC. Most important
NPCs have a retinue or guard of some sort.

Robbery in Progress: Criminals burst out of a nearby shop,
eager to cause as much mayhem as possible during their escape.
Each of the 1d4+1. robbers has a CR equal to 3 less than the party
level. The loot from the robbery is double standard for the CR of
the robbers. ;

Spectacle: The characters witness some unusual form of public |

,entertainment—a talented bard, a street circus, or flashy magic.

for example,
Spell. Gone Awry: A spelicaster has foolishly experimented.
with a spell or had a mishap with a scroll. The PCs might have to

jcontend with a rampaging summoned creature, the aftermath of a
fireball. in.the marketplace, or a.squad of the city guard under a con-

fusion effect.
