 
   

Axatomy Diacram

Great Rep Wyrm

    
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
  

pra bows
“

Saw aad chin

 

 

 
 

      

\

Sig la}

if

he

5 yolkrun your campaigngyou need to portray all sorts of

characters. Use the information in this chapter for creat
ing and controlling the NPCs that populate yout.cam:
paign world

Irs your job-t0 portray everyone in the world who.isnY wplayer
characters NPGs run the gamut from the old woman who operates
the livery to the foul:necromancer out to destroy the kingdom to
the dragon ints lair, counting gold, The vast majority of folk
don't eare abour the PCs unless the BCs have'reached the point
where they ate saving the wotld, Even then, most people probs
bly. dont know about them.

‘Most|people and creatures go about their wn lives, oblivious
$ulea).ta the actions of the PCs and the events in the PCs’ adventures,
Common people whom they meetina town wont see them a$ difs
ferent from anyone else unless the PCs do something to draw
attention to themselves. In short, the rest of the world doesn't
know that the PCs are, infact, player characters: It treats them no
differently from anyone else, gives them no special breaks (or spe-
elahpendlties}, and gives them fo special attention, The PCs have
adrely,on their own actions If they are foolish or unruly, they
make énemies and earh the distrtist ofall. If they ar¢ wise and
kind, they make friends and garner respect—and probably also
run afoul of enemivs.that don share the PCs' virtues.

© ENEMIES ~
Running the foes of the PCs is one of your main tasks, and one of
the most fun. When creating enemies for the PCs, keep the fol-
lowing points in mirid!

 

ay Arvichsy

rPCs foes are evil, that doesnie mean they all work

Fully Rounded Characters: Flesh out enemies. Give
thought to why NPCS are'doing What they doywhy they are
where they aresand how they interact with all thar’ around
thé’ Tf you don't think of them as just bad guys for the
PCs to kill, the players Wonteither.

IntelligencesPlay ehemiles.as smart as theytare—no
mote, no less, Ogresimight not beithé best strategists, but
mind flayers are incredibly intelligent and always have
schemes and.contingéncy plans.

Dont Be Afraid to Make Them Evil: Evil is evil. Dont
hesitare'to make the villains truly vile. Betrayal, devious lies,
and hideoug acts all make enemies more rewarding to
defeat.

Evil Is'Not Everywhere: An NPC opponent doesnt
have to be evil. Sometimes néutral and even good char
acters might oppose what the PCs aredoing, since nat
all good people agree on everything-Sometimes it's
intgresting to face an opponent whom you don't want
to killoutright. tecran

Evil Doesn't Always Cooperate: Ben ifall the |

together. In fact, evil rarelygets along withjevit (par-
ticularlyinthe case-of chaotic evil creatures), because
the goals of one selfish, destructive creattire by defi-
nition.conflict with the goals of other selfish,
destructive creatugés.

The Prisoner Dilemma: What should the PCs do
with enemy prisoners? Ifan NPC foe surrenders, the
characters face a quandary. Do they spare the lives of,
their evil foes, or put them to the sword? What's the
greater wrong, killing something evil or letting it

Titov er neha fo)

oS
GL

y
A

  
