  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    

  

live to commit more evil acts? In some campaigns or some locales
in a campaign world, bounties.are paid for living prisoners. The
prisoners’ friends can also offer ransoms to.get them back alive.

These two facts can help PCs decide what to do with prisoners, as

can some indication from you through other allied NPCs as to,

what the accepted course of action is for the land the characters)
jare adventuring in. Although you should play the NPCs as appro-,
\priately as you can, dont make the PCs face a prisoner dilemma,
\unless you are sure you want to. 4
Villains
A diabolical sorcerer, an evil high priest,.a master assassin, a lich,
an ancient red dragon—the possibilities for intelligent villains are
endless, and they make for some of the PCs’ most memorable and
most hated foes. A well-played villain can become a recurring
character who is a constant thorn in the side of the PCs.

Here are some pointers for well-played villains,

Use Lackeys: Dont have a major villain confront the PCs her-|
jself.unless necessary. Eventually, the PCs will want to take the,
Hight to her, bur she should use underlings, cohorts, and sum-
moned creatures.to challenge the characters whenever possible.
Nevertheless, don't deny the PCs the satisfaction of ultimately
having the opportunity to defeat her.

Be Sneaky and Resourceful: Use all available options to foil
the PCs, A sneaky villain might use undetectable alignment or non-
detection to foil attempts to find him. A detect crying spell or—even
tbetter—a screen spell can keep scrying from revealing his actions.
| Mind blank foils detect thoughts, and spell resistance potentially foils
jmost everything. The basic idea to keep in mind is thar for every
jability the PCs might have, an NPC villain might be able to
jcounter it with the right spell, item, or ability.

Have an Escape Plan; Once the PCs have confronted the vil-
jlain and foiled his plans, it can be hard for him to getaway without
{preparing beforehand. PCs are notorious for dogging the heels of

villain who tries to escape, Use secret passages, invisibility, dimen-

sion door teleport, contingency, and swarms of underlings to aid the

villain’s escape.

‘Take Hostages: Put the PCs ina moral dilemma. Are they-will-,
ing to attack the villain if her servants are prepared to slay on her)
command a number of townsfolk she captured? }

Use Magic: A high-level villain (even a fighter or a rogue
should have a great deal of magic to fall back on, perhaps through
the use of spellcasting servants or magic items. The PCs have
plenty of. magic.to bring to bear against the villain, so she should
have a fair number of tricks and surprises for them as well.

Fight on the Villain’s Terms: A smart villain fights the PCs

only when he has to, and only when he's prepared. Preferably, he
,engages them after they have been weakened by fighting their
jway.through his guardian- and trap-filled lair.

Animals and Other Monsters
Animals, vermin, magical beasts, and other low-intelligence mon-
sters form a special category of NPC. They don't act the way more
intelligent creatures do, Instead, they are driven by instinct and
need. Hunger and fear, for example, motivate animals, They are
occasionally curious, but usually they are looking for food. When
setting up encounters with animals other and low-intelligence crea-
tures, remember to develop some sort of ecology. A hundred orcs
might all organize themselves together in one area, but a hundred

,displacer beasts never would unless an intelligent, outside force
{were compelling them to do so, In a dungeon, for example, preda-
jtors need something to eat and probably svould not lair too close to
jeach other to avoid competition for food. The logical demands of an
ecosystem can sometimes make a dungeon difficult to rationalize or
,to design. so thar it is at least somewhat believable. An intelligent,
organizing force often helps to explain the presence of creatures in|
numbers or locations contrary to their natural inclination.

Animals and other low-intelligence monsters want to eat, want
to he safe, and sant to protect their young. They are not thrilled
about.competition for food, but only the most aggressive attack.
for no other reason.than that. They dont collect treasure, but the

{possessions of the characters they have slain can be found in their
airs, untouched by the creatures.

These sorts of creatures make great foes for PCs, since few
moral issues are raised by slaying a dire wolf or even an umber
hulk or a wyvern. Thus, even though humans are a poor choice of.
prey for most animals in the real world, assume that most.preda-,
tors in the campaign dont mind or even prefer hunting and eating}
intelligent creatures.

FRIENDS .
Not everyone hates the PCs. If the characters are smart, asthe,
campaign progresses they will make as many frlends.as enemies

{Characters who don't oppose the PCs are divided into four types’

Tallies, cohorts, followers, and hirelings. The Leadership feat (see
\PCs as Leaders, page 106) enables a character to attract cohorts and,

jfollowers, Allies and hirelings have different relationships with
PCs than cohorts and hirelings do.

Allies

Markioy Thenurilis a rugged ranger who patrols the wilderness to
the west. Ever since the PCs helped him fight off the gnoll incur-
sion two years ago, he has been willing to provide them with infor-
mation about his territory whenever they need it, He has intro-
duced them to Viran Rainsong, an elf wizard/bard who gives them |
great deals on potions and scrolls thar she manufactures. Viran's,
half-brother Ethin traveled with the PCs when they went.to the,
Forgotten Mountain and the Lichlair.

Allies come in.two types: those who help the PCs with infor-
mation, equipment, ora place to stay the night, and those who
actually travel with them on adventures. The former make useful
contacts and resources. The latter function as party members and
earn a full share of experience points and treasure just as any
other character does. Essentially, these latter allies are adyentur-
ers who just happen not to be controlled by players. They differ
from cohorts and hirelings (see below), who work directly for
the PCs.

Cohorts
Cohorts are loyal servants who follow.a particular character or
sometimes a group of characters. (NPC adventurers can have co-
horts, too.) They are hired by or seek out a PC or PCs, and they
work outa deal agreeable to both parties so that the NPC works
for the characters, A cohort serves as a general helper, a body-
guard, a sidekick, or just someone to watch a character's back.
Although technically subservient, cohorts are usually too valuable
to waste on performing menial tasks,

There are_no limitations onthe class, race, or gender of a char-
acter’s cohorts, nor limits to the number of cohorts who can be
employed by a character. Mistreated cohorts become disloyal and
eventually leave or even seek revenge against their employers.
Loyal cohorts become trusted friends and long-time helpers.

So, what's really the difference between allies who come along
and use their abilities to face dangers alongside the PCs, and
cohorts who do the same thing?

Cohorts are people who take on a subservient role. Cohorts are,
not leaders, They might voice an opinion now and again, but for,

jthe most part, they do as they're told. j
Experience Points; Cohorts earn experience points, but norat,
the same rate_as player characters, To determine.a cohort's XP)
,award, follow this procedure:
1. Donit include a cohort as a party member when determining
the XP awards for individual characters. In a party containing four
PCs and one cohort, each PC gets 1/4 of the overall XP award.

    
