2. Divide the cohort’ level by the levelofthe PC with whomhe might be unfriendly (see Influencing NPC Attitudes, page 22 of]

or she is associated (the character who attracted the cohort), the Player's Handbook), bur characters potentially can influence,
3. Multiply this result by the roral XP awarded to the PC and add them to.a better attitude and perhaps even talk them out of/
that number of experience points to the cohort's total. hazard pay. 4
For example, a 4th-level cohort associated with a éth-level PC. Hirelings are helpful to have around, particularly for specific
gains 2/3 as much XP as the character gains. tasks. If the PCs wipe.out.a.nest of wererats but have to leave
If a cohort gains enough XP to bring it to.a level one lower, _jtreasure behind, they.can hire porters to come back down with
\than the associated PC's. character level, the cohort does not gain, them into the lair.to help carry out the goods. An animal tender
ithe new level—its new XP total is 1 less than the amount needed | or two to watch the PCs’ horses while they're down in.a dungeon,
to attain the next level. This rule is especially significant when. _can be useful. Mercenary warriors can provide vital additional,
the PC loses one or more levels; a. cohort's level advancement strength to the party's ability to combat foes, }
jcould be stalled for quite some.time.until the PC regains his or Middle and high-level PCs should be aware that. taking a 1st-
her lost levels and gains enough additional XP to be eligible for a level commoner with them on an adventure so thatshe can carry.
higher-level cohort (see the Leadership feat on the following equipment or fight as a mercenary probably places her at great
page). risk. Hirelings who are expected to fight are best used to deal with |
Treasure: Although the PCs can work out other deals, their foes of their level—goblin warriors, for instance, or an evil cleric’s
,cohorts usually get only ahalf share of any treasure the party {skeleton army, 7
gains. Sometimes a cohort seeks no pay, only the opportunity to} _j _ Table 41: Prices for Hireling Services gives an idea of the daily
iserve alongside the PCs. Such cohorts require only living costs. _{wage that hirelings of various types will expect or demand. The,
However, they are not common. |. _jprices on the table are for long-term retention of services; hiring
The easiest way.to calculate a half share is to treat the cohort as|. someone for just a day or two might cost. two or three times the
getting a full share, but award him or her only half, and then indicated price, 4
divide out the remainder to the group. For instance, if a party of Also, the prices do not include materials, tools, or weapons the
four PCs and one cohort earns 1,000 gp, divide the gold pieces by _hireling may need.to do his or her job.
5 (which is 200 apiece), but award the cohort only 100, and divide
the leftover 100 among the four PCs (25 each), TABLE 4—1: PRICES FOR HIRELING SERVICES
t Hireling Per Day Hireling Per Day.
Followers. Alchemist® gp Mason/craftsperson® 3spi
Followers are similar to cohorts, except they're generally low-level Animal tender/groom__15 cp Mercenary 2spi
NPCs. Because they're generally five or more levels behind the Arehitect/engineee. —-S sp) Mercenary cavalry 43p
character they follow, they're rarely effective in combat. But a Barrister gp Mercenary leader. 6 sp
iclever player can use them as scouts, spies, messengers, errand- Clerk 4sp Porter 1sp
imunners, or guards. Cook 1sp Sage 2or more gp,
Followers don't earn experience and thus don't gain levels. Entertainer/performer 4 sp Scribe 3sp
However, when a character with the Leadership feat (see page Laborer 1sp Smith 4sp*
106) attains a new level, the player consults the table in the feat Limner 6sp Teamster 3sp
description to determine if she has acquired more followers, some Maid Tsp Valet/lackey 2sp
of which may be higher level than the existing followers. (You * If paid to create specific item, use item prices and working times
don't consult the table to see if your cohort gains levels, however. | instead.
because cohorts earn experience on their own.)
Followers don't demand a share of treasure, although they, _ The types of hirelings characters. might employ (from Table 4-1)

depend on the PC they follow to equip them and keep them fed. are described below, bs
Alchemist: One who.works with chemicals, Also includes

Replacing Cohorts and Followers apothecaries (those who deal with drugs and medicines).
If a leader loses.a cohort or followers, he can genérally replace Animal Tender/Groom: Someone to care for animals. Also
them, according to his current Leadership score. It takes time (1d4 includes shepherds, shearers, and swineherds,
months) to recruit replacements. If the leader is to blame for the Architect/Engineer: A skilled, educated planner, essential for
deaths of the cohort or followers, it takes.extra time to replace _large building projects. Also includes shipwrights.
them, up toa full year. Note that the leader also picks up a reputa- Barrister: A lawyer.
|tion of failure, which decreases his Leadership score. Clerk: A scribe specializing in accounting. Also includes trans-
lators and interpreters,

Hirelings ‘Cook: Someone who can prepare meals, often for large groups.
When the PCs need to hire someone to perform a taskk—make Entertainer/Performer; A minstrel, actor, singer, dancer, or
items, speak with sages, care for their horses, or help build a castle, poet,
hirelings are the NPCs they employ. Characters can use hirelings Laborer: Anyone performing unskilled or relatively unskilled
to carry torches, tote theit treasure, and fight for them, Hirelings labor. Includes ditchdiggers, gravediggers, bloomers (forge work-
differ from cohorts in that they have no investment in what's ers), plowers, quarriers, and many other kinds.
going on. They just do their jobs. Limaner: A painter, Includes all types of artisans,

Unlike cohorts, hirelings do not make decisions, They do as Maid: A household servant who cleans. }
they're told (at least in. theory). Thus, even if they go on an Mason/Craftsperson: A mason is a stoneworker, but.this cat-;
adventure with the PCs, they gain no experience and do not egory also covers carpenters, tanners (leatherworkers), haberdash-}

jaffect. any calculations involving the party level. Like cohorts, ers, brewers, coopers, cordwainers (shoemakers), bookbinders,|
jhirelings must be treated fairly well, or they will leave and fletchers, fullers (feltmakers), bowyers, cobblers, drapers, joiners,
Umighteven.turn against their former employers. Some hirelings parchmentmakers, plasterers, chandlers (candlemakers), dyers,
might require hazard pay (perhaps as high as double normal, _|skinners, soapmakers, jewelers, tinkers, vintners, weavers, gem-
pay)if placed in particularly dangerous situations. In addition|. cutters. wheelwrights, cartwrights, horners, mercers, hosiers, and

to demanding hazard pay, hirelings placed in great danger, __ather individuals who perform acraft

 
