Mercenary: A ist-level warrior (see the. warrior NPC class,
page 109)

Mercenary Cavalry: A 1st-level warrior who can ride and fight
on horseback.

Mercenary Leader: A 2nd-level warrior. For a mercenary |
leader of higher level than.2nd, add 3 sp per day per level more ,
than is shown on Table 4-1.

Porter: Someone who carries heavy loads, ;

Sage: A researcher, a scholar, or a wise, educated person who |
provides information. You should assign a time period required to |
research the answer to a.question, which may be as short as an
hour or as long as a month.or. more (depending both on the diffi-
culty of the question and the-likelihood that the sage knows the
answer or can find it quickly), More renowned sages demand
higher fees, particularly for difficult areas of research.

Scribe; Someone who can write, Also includes scriveners

j{manuscript copiers),

Smith: A metalworker. Includes blacksmiths, goldsmiths, sil-)
jwersmiths, coppersmiths, pewterers, minters (coinmakers), laton-|
jers (bronzeworkers), braziers (brassworkers), locksmiths, weapon-_

smiths, and armorers,

Teamster: Cart or wagon driver.

Valet/Lackey: A general servant required to perform many and
varied duties.

PCS AS LEADERS

When PCs gain levels, they also garner reputations. Those who
[show promise, great power, a path toward success, or perhaps just
\a friendly demeanor may find that NPCs want to follow them.
‘These NPCs may wish for apprenticeships, employment, or a
weader they can look up to.

    
  
  
 

Attracting Cohorts
\Acharacter of 6th level or higher can start attracting cohorts (see page
104) and followers (see page 105) by aking the Leadership feat (see
below). Unlike other feats, this one depends heavily.on the social set-
ting of the campaign, the actual location of the PC. and the group
dynamics. You're free to disallow this fear if it would disrupt the.cam-
paign. Be sure to consider the effect of a PC having a cohort. A cohort |
is effectively another PC in the party under thar player's control, one |
whose share of XP, treasure, and spotlight time is bound to take some-
thing away from the other players’ characters. If your group is small,
cohorts may be a great idea. If it’s big enough that a cohort would bea
problem, dont let the PCs have cohorts,

A character can try.to attract a cohort of a particular race, class,
and alignment. The cohorts alignment may not be opposed to the
leader's alignment on either the law-vs.-chaos or good-vs-evil axis,

sand the leader takes a Leadership penalty if he recruits a cohort of
jan alignment different from his own, The DM determines the
sdetails of the cohort. The cohort has gear as an NPC (see Table
|4-23: NPC Gear Value, page 127).

LEADERSHIP [GENERAL]
A character with this fear is the sort of individual others want to
follow, and he or she has done some work attempting to recruit
cohorts and followers,

Prerequisites: A character must be at Jeast_6th level to take

this fear.

Benefits: Having this feat enables the character to attract loyal
.companions and devoted followers, subordinates who assist her.
»See.the table below for what sort.of cohort and how.many follow-
jers.the character can recruit. . =

Leadership Modifiers: Several factors can affect a character's

_{Leadership score, causing it to vary from the base score (character.
level + Cha modifier), A character's reputation (from the point of.
view_of the cohort or follower he is trying to attract) raises or)
lowers his Leadership score:

Leadership. Cohort. —— Number of Followers by Level ——
Score Level Ist 2nd 3rd 4th = Sth 6th.
1 or lower - - - - -—- =
2 Jst me
3 io —- — — — — =
4 rd eae = ——
5 3rd =
6 4th
? Sth -— — = -— = =
8 Sth. — — — =
9 tho - —- —- —- = =
10 7th. or
uv 7th 6 = eh
2 8th 8 a ee
3 th WW 1 —- =— = =
14 Wth WS
5 10th 20 2 1 =<
116 Uh 25 2
v thi 300ESE Ser
1 18 Wth 353] to
19 Wh 4 4 2 Fo ho =
20 Mth sos gy
2 1h) Om laine Oa 4
22 Te ed
23 16th 90 3 5 3 2 1
24 SOT kk
Worhighe 1th 135 13 7 4 2 2

Leadership Score: A character’s base Leadership score equals his level
plus any Charisma modifier. In order to take into. account negative
Charisma modifiers, this table allows for very low Leadership scores,
but the character must still be 6th level or higher in order to gain the |
Leadership feat. Outside factors can affect a character's Leadership
score, as detailed below.

Cohort Level: The character can attract a cohort of up to this level.
Regardless of a character's Leadership score, he can only recruit a
cohort who is two or more levels lower than himself. A 6th-level.
paladin with a +3 Charisma bonus, for example, can still only
tecruit a cohort of 4th level or lower. The cohort should be
equipped with gear appropriate for its level (see Table 4-23: NPC
Gear Value, page 127)

Number of Followers by Level: The character can lead up to the
indicated number of characters of each level, For example, a
character with a Leadership score of 14 can lead up to fifteen Ist-
level followers and one 2nd-level follower.

Leader's Reputation Modifier
Great renown 42
Fairness and generosity +
Special power 4
Failure -
Aloofness J
Cruelty. -2

Other modifiers may apply when the character tries to attract a
cohort:

The Leader... Modifier

Has a familiar, special mount, or 2
animal companion

Recruits a cohort of a different alignment -]

Caused the death of a cohort ~2"

* Cumulative per cohort killed.

Followers have different priorities from cohorts. When the char-|

jacter tries to attract a new follower, use any of the following mod-

ifiers that apply.
