counters are to adventiires what adventures are to Cam
plign’. Good adventures make up good campaigns, Creat
ing'a Campaign is the most difficult, but most rewarding
task a DM faces.
It's important to distinguish between a campa
World, since the terms often seem to be used iriter
} campaign is composed of a serits of adven

irrounding everything that happens in thc
you guide players through adventures you have designed and the
Players choose the paths for their characters within those adven
= uires, you are running # campaign.
Sn’ Aiworld is'a fictional place in which a campaign is set-ir also
Md} alten called ajcampaign setting. A campaign requires a world in
Gi which the action takes place, but whether you create your own
“World or tise an already established setting, the campaign you run
IP i always your own.

A campaign generally hasthe same set of characters (see The
venturing Party, below) throughout. They are the link between the
ypaign’s adventures. You might think of such a campaign as a series
or movies, with the same characters facing new challenges

t aren't necessarily related to the challenges that came befor

Las ACampaign firstrequires a world. A *world® isa consistent envi-
Cl ronment forthe campaign. Geography and people are consistent
an the world: Ravensburg is always on the same side of the river,
and the NPGSremember the player characters after the first
meeting, You have two options when it comes to making a world

for your campaign:
a RIT
oe .

Peg eS myT

2 Use % Published Campaign Setting: Theyadvantage of

published setting is that’yourdont have to do so

h work, A.lor of the eréarion ts done for you, often

from the basics. down to the details, OF course, you are
always free to pick and.choose from the published mate.
rial and use only what you like. One déawback tousing

a published world is thar your players might read the

same products thar you do and might therefore know

as much (or more) about theworld ag you do. If this
happens, dont let the players dictate the world to you

“No, I think Ravensburg is ruled by a queen.

Above all, even if its a published: product, its your

world.

Greite Your Own World: For méreinformation on

how todo this, see World-Building; page 135:

Once you ‘haye-a fictional game! world and an
advénture for the chatacters ro start with, the cam-
paign.can begin, The most importanmpurpose of a
campaign is to make the players feel that their char
‘acters live jst teal world.-This appearance of real-
ism, also-ealled verisimilirude, is important because
itallows the players to stop feelipg like they're play
ing 2 gaine and start feeling mote like they're play-
ing roles. When.immersed in their roles, they are
mote likely ro reaer'to evil Lord Erimbar than they
are to you playing Lord Erimbar

You will know you have succeeded when the play-
ers ask,you increasingly probing questions, questions
Hor just of the depth of “What's beyond those
woods?” bur such as “If the rangers around the
wood keepsuch a close watch on the edges of the

2

div

NESE

>"

(2)
sic
>
ml
im]
748)
7
i
ioe]

\,

 
