 

forest, how can the ore raiders keep attacking the nearby vil- BEGINNING THE CAMPAIGN

lages without warning?” When the players ask questions of that
sort, they're thinking in character. Don't ever answer such a
question with “Because I said so” or “Because I’m the DM.”
Doing that encourages metagame thinking (see page 11). Either)
provide an answer, or ask how the character is going to go about,
finding our. }
Occasionally, a player.will see a loophole or inconsistency in,
\what you have created, Use such an observation to your advan-|
tage rather than admitting that you've made a mistake. Make the)
(quest for the answer a part of the adventure. When the players
\discover that the leader of the rangers is taking bribes from the
sores to look the other way, they will feel rewarded for asking the
right questions, and they will trust the verisimilirude of your
world that much more,

THE ADVENTURING PARTY

\Bringing the group of adventurers (the party) together can be aj
\challenge. Not for the players—they are all sitting around the)
jtable—but for the characters. What brings such a disparate,
group of races and professions together and makes them a team ,
that goes on adventures together? The objective when answer-
ing this question is to avoid the dissatisfaction players feel when
they sense that they are adventuring with their comrades only
because these folks are the other PCs. One way to prevent this
feeling is to haye the players create their characters together
jand put the burden of determining how they have come
jtogether.on them before the first adventure ever starts. Here are
ja few other suggestions.

Happenstance: The first adventure is set.up-so that someone

Lis putting out a call for mercenaries or adventurers.to do some
\task, and the characters are the men and women who happened
\to. answer the call. Alternatively, all the characters meet and dis-
\cover that they are headed to the same place,

History: The characters are lifelong friends who have met in
the past. Despite their different backgrounds and training, they.
are already good friends.

Mutual Acquaintances: The characters dont start as friends.
but are introduced as trusted friends of mutual friends |

Outside Intervention: The characters are called together by |
an outside force—someone with authority enough to. get them,
to do as she says—and are commanded to work together, at least
on the first adventure.

The Cliché: The characters all meet in a tavern over mugs of
ale and decide to work together,

Start small. Set.the first adventure in whatever locale you desire,,
give.the players the information they need for that adventure, and)
Jet them know just alittle about the surrounding area. Later, youcan,
lexpand on this information, or the PCs can explore and find out
{more firsthand, With each successive playing session, give the play-
jers a little more information about the campaign setting. Slowly, it
will blossom before. them into.what seems to be a real world.
‘A great moment in any_DM's careers when the players begin to,
_refer to places and people you have created in the campaign as if,
they were real: “They'd never let you get away with that in the Ciry)
of Greyhawk!" “I wonder what Lord Nosh is up to.these days? He
was looking for an apprentice when we saw him last." When those
sorts of comments start to flow, you can bask in the glow of a suc-)
cessful campaign.

Once ir's going, maintaining a campaign becomes as much work |

jas preparing adventures, Keep track of everything that happens,
everything that you tell the players about the setting. and work to
make it all into a fully actualized world. Build each adventure
upon those that came before, Learn from what's happened—both
the good and the bad.

CONTEXT

The most important facet of a campaign is a.contextin which you}
can set adventures and players can place their characters. '

Consistency: The way to make your campaign consistent is to,
keep accurate notes, If the Inn of the Blue Boar had a.creaky door
when the PCs visit the place, make sure it has a creaky door when |
they return (unless you have a reason for why it doesnit creak any=|
more). Once the players notice consistent details (minor ones, such.
as the creaking door, or major ones, such as a high priestess name),
they begin to feel that the world you have created is a real place,
Keep a notebook or binder with all your notes for the campaign, so
that everything is at your fingertips during a game session. If a
player asks for the name of the place that someone her character
met said was under siege, you should have the answer for her.

Calendars and Timekeeping: Keep close track of time. Track
the passing of each season so you can describe the weather, Mark
the coming and going of holy days and.other dates of importance.
This practice helps you organizationally, as well as encouraging
you to establish a calendar for your setting. It is another way to
give your world verisimilirude.

 

VARIANT: UPKEEP
Instead of worrying about meal prices, lodging, replacing torn clothing,
and other miscellaneous costs, as well as to represent the kinds of
costs that turn up in daily life that aren't reflected on the tables in
Chapter 7 of the Player's Handbook, you can require each player to pay
a monthly upkeep cost based on the lifestyle of the character.

The upkeep can be assumed to take into consideration every
expense except the cost of specific adventuring equipment—even
taxes, Ultimately, each player should choose the level of upkeep she's
willing to pay.

From most modest to priciest, the levels of upkeep are self
sufficient, meager, poor, common, good, and extravagant.

Self-Sufficient: Cost 2 gp per month. Even if you own your home (or
live with someone else), raise your own food, make your own clothes,
and so on, you occasionally need to purchase a new pair of shoes, pay
a road toll, or buy staples such as salt. Common laborers earn about 3
gp per month, so they usually have to be self-sufficient just to survive

Meager: Cost 5 gp per month. A meager upkeep assumes that you

 

 

 

eat little (or hunt and gather a fair amount of your food in the wild) and
sleep in flophouses and occasionally in the street or in the wild

Poor: Cost 12 gp per month. Poor upkeep means providing for your-
self from the most basic of travelers’ accommodations, which are
nevertheless better than living on the street or in the woods.

‘Common: Cost 45 gp per month, You live in inns and eat tavern
meals every day, a practice that quickly grows to be moderately expen-
sive. This level of upkeep assumes the occasional night drinking in the
tavern or a nice glass of wine with dinner.

Good: Cost 100 gp per month. You always stay in your own room at
inns, and you eat healthy, solid meals with a glass of wine. You main-
tain a jaunty style with your clothing and try to keep yourself supplied
with the good things in life.

Extravagant: Cost 200 gp per month, You buy and use only the best.
You take the finest rooms in the finest inns, eat lavish meals with the
best wines, attend and throw stunning parties, have regal clothing, and
make flamboyant gestures through large expenditures. You may even
‘own your own impressive home with servants.

 

 
