Events: Stagnation is unrealistic. Change encourages a feeling
of realism. Droughts ruin crops, kingdoms go to war, the queen
gives birth to a daughter, the price of steel rises asthe iron mines
close up, and new taxation policies raise an uproar among the
common folk. In the campaign world, just as in the real world.)
new events happen every day, Unlike in our world, the campaign }
world might not have the technology to disseminate information |
guickly, but eventually word of change does reach the characters.
\Notall events need to be catalysts for adventures. Some serve well |
just providing background, j

A Reactive Environment; Actions that the PCs wke should
affect the campaign. If the PCs burn down a tavern in the middle
of town, the authorities will be after them at least for questioning,
if not for punishment or restitution (see Player Characters Out of
Control, page 135), When the PCs accomplish something great,
people in the campaign world hear about it, Common folk begin
to recognize the characters’ names and perhaps even their faces. If
,the characters free a town from a tyrant, the next time they come |
10 that town, conditions should be better—or at least different.

BUILDING ON THE PAST
‘Another key to maintaining a campaign is building on the past to
heighten drama, establish motivation, and flesh out the world. Ser
the characters up for a hard fall. Establish a place in the campaign
world as a wonderful, free, and peaceful area. Then, later on in the
campaign, have that place invaded and ravaged by an evil force
Having already established in the characters’ (and players’) minds
ithat it was a. great place, you won't need to provide any sort of.
exposition to explain why the villains are so evil or give the char-
acters motivation.to get involved in stopping them,

Use what has come before and prepare for what is still to come.
“That approach is what makes a campaign different from a series of
unrelated adventures. Some strategies for building on the past to
maintain a campaign include using recurring characters, having the
PCs form relationships beyond the immediate adventure, changing
what the PCs know, hitting the PCs where it hurts, preparing the
PCs for the furure, and foreshadowing coming events.

Recurring Characters: While this group includes Johanna the,
innkeeper, who is at the inn each time the PCs return from the|
dunge6n, it also extends to other characters as well. The mysteri- |
ous stranger thar they savy in a back alley of the City of Greyhawk
reappears on the road to the Duchy of Urnst, revealing his identity
and original intentions. The villain responsible for inciting the
goblins to attack the village returns, this time in possession of a
powerful magic item, The other adventurers the PCs encountered
in the dungeons below Castle Reglis show up just in time to help
fight off the black dragon Irrkuth. Overused recurring characters
can make a setting seem artificial, but reusing existing characters
judiciously not only lends realism but reminds PCs of their own

-past. thus reaffirming their place in. the campaign.

Relationships Beyond the Adventure: The PCs make friends
with the innkeeper’s son.and visit him every time they are in town
just to hear another of his jokes. A PC falls in love with an azer
princess, and eventually they marry. Old Kragar, a retired fighter,
looks upon the PCs as.the children he never had. Every year, the
centaurs of Chalice Wood delivera present to the PC who slew the
green dragon on the anniversary of his heroic deed. Relationships
such as these flesh out the campaign world,

Change What the PCs Know: The king of the elves is replaced
by a usurper. The once dangerous roads near the Winding River

‘are now safe, thanks to increased patrols and a powerful group of
NPC adventurers. who slew most of the monsters in.the area,
Change a few facts, and you intrigue the players by making them
want.to know why or how things changed.

Hit Them Where It Hurts: If a PC makes friends with the
blacksmith in town, you can make things interesting by haying.
the blacksmith tell the PC that his son was among those kid-|

napped when the slavers attacked. If the PCs really enjoy visiting,
the village of Shady Grove, put Shady Grove in the path of the evil,
cleric’s advancing army. Dont overdo revelations of this sort,.or|
else the PCs will never grow attached to anything, for fear of put-
{ting that thing in danger, However, this strategy works as a pow-
jerful motivator when used in. moderation.

Prepare the PCs for the Future: If you know that later in the
campaign you want to have trolls rise up from their lairs and begin
raiding the Deep Cities of the dwarves, have the PCs hear about,
the Deep Cities or even visit them on an adventure long before,
this happens. Doing this will make the troll adventure much more |
meaningful when it occurs, Threading information into early
adventures that informs the PCs of elements of furure adventures
helps weave 3 campaign into a whole. +

Foreshadow Coming Events: If the kobold thatthe charac:
ters captured speaks about a new troll king, and the PCs hear from

dwarves and gnomes the occasional tale of a battle with a troll,

{they will be better prepared for the time when they must try to
ystop.the trolls from destroying the Deep Cities. They might even.

{follow up on the leads you plant without your ever having to initi-
ate the adventure at all.

CHARACTERS AND THE

The PCs live in a living, breathing world. Included here are spe-|
cific details regarding character classes.and their place in. the)
world,

PCS AND NPCS j
The NPC classes presented in Chapter 4 of this book showcase the |
difference between PCs and the rest of the world: The PCs are
among the most capable members of the populace, or at least
among those with the greatest potential. The variance of ability
scores (from 3 to 18 or higher) shows that not all people in the
world are created equal, and not all have the same opportunities.

Having the same opportunities, in this case, means having
training. Training is the difference between an adept and a wizard,
a warrior and a fighter, a commoner and an expert. An NPC with
good ability scores might still he a warrior rather than a fighter
because she has never had the opportunity to obtain the training
to be a fighter. She can swing a sword, but she does not have the
finesse_of a trained fighter. In theory, however, she could be
trained as a fighter at some point after beginning her career as a
warrior, gaining fighter levels through multiclassing

Obviously, however, training isn't always helpful. Someone
with an Intelligence score of 6 is never going to be a wizard, since
he is unable to cast spells. In theory, though, anyone with the
intelligence, the inclination, and the training can learn wizardry,

CLASS ROLES IN SOCIETY

Characters, particularly.as they advance in level, need to know
how. they and those like them fir into the world. This section may
be helpful in giving an idea of wat classes particular NPCs might
belong to, what sorts of NPCs one might find in a world, how PCs
can fit in, and what PCs can potentially aspire to. Of course, PCs
can form whatever goals they wish, but the following information ,
might at least generate some ideas. |
Barbarian: Barbarians, by their nature, have no place in civi-|
lized society, In their own tribal society they are hunters, war-|
riors, and war chiefs, But ina civilized community, the best they,
can hope for is to join fighters’ organizations and fill a fighter’s|
iroles, Often, fighters froma civilized society will not follow a
barbarian leader unless he has somehow proved himself worthy
\of their loyalty, Barbarians of legend often aspire to gather those
like them and found their own tribe, or even their own kingdom,

 
