Bard: Bards serve as entertainers, either on their own, singing ciars.or something similar, implying that the paladin is in charge!

for their supper, or in troupes. Some bards aspire to be an aristo- of dispensing church-sanctioned justice. 5
crat's personal troubadour, Bards occasionally gather in colleges of Ranger: Rangers often seclude themselves, wandering into.the
learning and entertainment. Well-known, high-level bards often. _ wilderness for long stretches of time. If they aspire to leadership,
found bard colleges. These colleges serve as the standard educa-|. it is often as the warden of a small frontier community. Some
tional system for a.city.as well as a kind of guild where bardscan,. _jxangers form loose-knit.and.often secretive organizations. These
find training and support. | {ranger groups watch over events in the land, and their members
Cleric; Most clerics have.an.organizational structure built gather to exchange information. They often have the best view of
[right into their class. Religions usually have hierarchies,andeach, _the grand picture of everything that occurs. High-level rangers |
ssleric has his place within the structure, Clerics may be assigned! _aspire to found their own ranger societies orto establish and rule,
duties by their churches, or they might be free agents. Clerics. can new communities, often those they have carved our.of the wilder-|
|serve in. the military of an aristocrat sanctioned by their religion, ness itself.
or within some autonomous church-based military order estab- Rangers and druids often work together, even sharing the same
lished for defense. A high-level cleric can hope to one day be the secretive network. Sometimes a ranger group includes a few)
shepherd of his own congregation and temple, although some druids, or vice versa, 4
become religious advisors to aristocrats or the leaders of commu- Rogue: Rogues may serve in armies as spies or scouts, They.can
sniries of their own, with the people of the community looking to work as operatives of temples or as general troubleshooters for
\the cleric for religious and temporal guidance. Clerics often work, —_laristocrats, having attained these unique positions because of the
with paladins, and virtually every knightly order has at leastone| _jversatility of their skills and abilities. +
cleric member. | 4 Frequently, however, rogues gather together in guilds
Druid: Druids are often loners. They cloister themselves deep in , devoted to their area of expertise: theft, Thieves’ guilds are
the wilderness in sacred groves or other areas that they have common. The larger a city is, the more likely it is to havea
claimed for themselves, sometimes working with a single ranger or thieves’ guild. The populace and the constabulary sometimes
a group of rangers. Druids sometimes organize themselves in loose hare these guilds, At other times they are tolerated or even
affiliations. On rare occasions, druids sharing a particular focus accepted, so long as they don't allow themselves to get out of
may organize themselves asa tight-knit order, Sometimes creatures hand in their work. Acceptance is often gained through bribery
\such as satyrs, centaurs, or other fey join these. groups as well. in politically corrupt areas. i
All druids are at least nominally members of druidic society, Sorcerer: To the general populace, sorcerers are indistinguish- |
jwhich spans the globe. The society is so loose, however, that it may able from wizards, They often fill the same_roles.as wizards inj
{have little influence on a particular druid, society, although they rarely join wizards’ guilds, since they have
|. Druids assist and sometimes even lead small, rural communi- no need to research and study. Sorcerers, more than wizards, keep |
‘ties that benefit from their wisdom and power. to themselves, Sorcerers are more likely to hang about the fringes
Fighter: These characters often serve as mercenaries or officers of society, among creatures that other people would consider.
lin the army, The sheriff in a small town might well be a fighter. monsters,
Common soldiers and guards are usually warriors (see page 109). Conversely, some sorcerers find that military life suits them
Fighters may be loners or may gather to form martial societies even better than wizards. Sorcerers focused on battle spells are
for training, camaraderie, and employment (as mercenary. compa- more deadly than wizards, and they often are better with weapons.
nies, bodyguards, and so on). High-level fighters of greatrenown, —_A high-level sorcerer might aspire to the same sorts of goals a
typically found such societies, A fighter of common birth can. wizard would. Despite_their similarities, their differing
hope to become an aristocrat’s champion one day, but those with approaches means wizards and sorcerers find themselves in con-
aspirations to true greatness plan on earning their own grants.of, _ flict more often than they get.along.
land to become nobility in.theit own right Wizard; Wizards can serve many roles in society, Wizards for
Monk: The tradition of monk training started in distant lands _hiire are useful to the military as firepower (some armies employ
but now has become common enough that local people can go off entire units of wizards to blast the enemy, protect troops from
to monasteries and learn the spiritual and martial arts. In large danger, tear down castle walls, and so on), Or a wizard can serve
cities, monks learn their skills in special academies. Monks often the community.as a well-paid troubleshooter—someone able to
serve the monastery or academy that trained them. Other times, rid the town of vermin, stop the levee from bursting, or foretell
,however, they may join a different monastery or academy. A high- the future. A wizard can open a shop and sell magic items she cre-
jevel monk with a good reputation can even found her own mon- ates or cast needed spells for a fee, She can aspire to serve an aris-
jastery_or academy. tocrat_ as an advisor and chief wizard, or to even rule over a com-
Only on rare occasions does a monk find a place in society out- munity on her own, Sometimes, the public fears a wizard for her
side her monastery, Such monks can become spiritual advisors, power, but more often than.not the local wizard is a highly
military commanders, or even law enforcers. A unit of monks in respected member of the community,
an army or in the local constabulary would be feared indeed. Wizards sometimes gather in guilds, societies, or cabals for
Paladin: Paladins are knights, working for their church or mutual research, and to live among those who understand the
within a knightly order. Qualifying for an order is often difficult, endless fascination of magic, Only the most powerful and famous
and membership always requires that the paladin follow a specific of wizards have the reputations necessary to found permanent
code of conduct. These orders sometimes allow nonpaladins as establishments, such as a wizard’s school. Where they exist, wiz:
members, with good-aligned rangers and fighters being the most ards’ guilds control such issues as the price and availability of
common sort of nonpaladin members. spells and magic items in a community.

,—Paladins can serve in the military force of an aristocrat sanc-
tioned by their religion, or within some autonomous. church-. GUILDS AND ORGANIZATIONS |
\based military order established for defense. A high-level paladin As mentioned in many_of the preceding descriptions, characters |

might seek to rule her own domain (to bestow her just beneyo- often gather in groups with characters of the same class. Some-
lence upon the masses), establish her own temple where none _|times this is simply che best way to keep one’s place in society and
existed before, or to serve as the trusted lieutenant of a high priest! _jto. make friends with common interests. Sometimes it's required

or worthy aristocrat. Paladins in such service are often called justi-, by law or outside pressure. For example, if you're a wizard in the

 
