 

Other factors in dealing with campaigns include introducing new
players to an ongoing campaign, fostering player goals, changing
alignments, managing the transition of PCs from low to high)
levels, and coping with increasing character power.

INTRODUCING NEW PLAYERS
[Players come and go. When a new player joins the group, take the |
,average of the levels of the existing PCs and allow the new player)
to create a character of that level. The only exception to this guide-
line is when the new player is completely unfamiliar with the
-D&D_game. In that case, it's easiest for that player to start with a
ist-level character.
Working a new.character into the group is similar to establish-
ing why the group got together in the first place, but can be more
(difficult if the party is in the middle of an adventure. A few possi-
bilities are given below. 4
|The new PC isa friend or relative of one of the existing PCs and)
finally caught up with the group to join in.
‘The new PC isa prisoner of the foes the existing PCs are fight-_
ing, When they rescue him, he joins their group.
The new PC was a part of another adventuring group that was
wiped out except for her.
The new PC was sent to the site for reasons unrelated to the
party's adventure (which might lead later to. another adventure
that the new PC can initiate) and joins with the existing PCs
because there's strength in numbers.

FOSTERING PLAYER GOALS

\Players should eventually develop goals for their characters. Goals

\might include joining a particular guild, starting their own

,church, building a fortress, starting a business, obtaining a partic-

sular magic item, getting powerful enough to defeat the enemies

threatening their hometown, finding a lost brother, or tracking

down the.villain who escaped them long ago. You should not only

encourage goals for characters, but you should be willing to

design adventures based around them. Goals shouldn't be easy to,
attain, but a player should always at Jeast have the opportunity to|
realize the goals he developed for his character (assuming they.are.

atall realistic),

CHANGING ALIGNMENT
A character.can have a change of heart that leads to the adoption
of a different alignment. Alignments arent commitments, except
in specific. cases (such as for paladins and clerics). Player charac-
ters have free will, and their actions often dictate a change of
valignment. Here are two examples of how a change of alignment
{can be handled.
|e A player creates » newe character, a rogue named Garrett. The
player decides he wants Garrett to be neutral good and writes
that on Garrett's character sheet. By.the second playing session
of Garrett's career, however, it's clear that the player isnit playing
Garrett as a good-aligned character at all. Garrett likes to steal
minor valuables from others (although not his friends) and does
not care about helping people or stopping evil. Garrett is a
neutral character, and the player made.a mistake when declaring
Garrett's alignment because he hadnt yet really decided how he
wanted to play him. The DM tells the player to erase “good” on
Garrett's character sheet, making his alignment simply “neutral.”
| —No big deal.
|+_An NPC traveling with the PCs is chaotic evil and is pretending
110 be otherwise because he was sent to spy on them and foil
their plans. He has been evil all his life, and he has lived among
others who acted as he did. As he fights alongside the good-
aligned PC adventurers, however, he sees how they work!
together and help each other. He begins to envy them their]

camaraderie, Finally, he warches es the paladin PC gives his life]
to save not. only his friends, but an entire town that was poised |
on.the brink of destruction at the hands of an evil sorcerer.
Everyone is deeply moved, including the evil NPC, and the.
town celebrates and honors the paladin’s self-sacrifice. The
rownfolk hail the adventurers.as heroes. The NPC is so moved
that he repents, casting aside his own evil ways (and his
mission), He becomes chaotic neutral, but he is well on his way.
to becoming chaotic good, particularly if he remains in the,
company of the PCs. If the PCs had not acted.so gallantly, be!
might not have changed his ways. If they turn.on_the NPC]
when they learn of his past, he may turn back to evil.
Most characters incur no game penalty for changing alignment,
bur you should keep a few points in mind, |
You're in Control: You control alignment changes,.not.the.
players. If a player says, "My neutral good character becomes

{chaotic good,” the appropriate response from you is “Prove it.”
{Actions dictate alignment, not statements of intent by players.

‘Alignment Change Is Gradual: Changes in alignment should,

{not be drastic. Usually, a character changes alignment only one

step at a time—from lawful evil to lawful neutral, for example,

and not directly to neutral good. A character on her way to adopt-
ing another alignment might have other alignments during the

transition to the final alignment.

‘Time Requirements: Changing alignment.usually takes time.
Changes of heart are rarely sudden (although they can be). What
you want to avoid isa player changing her character's alignment to}
evil to use an evil artifact properly and then changing itright back}
when she's done, Alignments arent garments you. can take offand)
put on casually. Require an interval of at least a week of game time
between alignment changes.

Indecisiveness Indicates Neutrality: Wishy-washy charac:
ters should just be neutral. Ifa character changes alignment over.
and over again during a campaign, what's really happened is that
the character hasn't made a choice, and thus she is neutral.

Exceptions; There are exceptions to all of the above. For in-
stance, it's possible (although unlikely) thar the most horrible neu-
tral evil villain has a sudden and dramatic change of heart and im-
mediately becomes neutral good.

THE TRANSITION
FROM _LOW TO HIGH LEVEL

One of the most rewarding and fun aspects of a campaign, for
players.and DMs alike, is the slow but steady transition from 1st
level through the low levels (2nd—sth) to the middle levels
(6th—-11th) into the high levels (12th-15th) and finally to the very
high levels (16th-2oth). You should be aware that low-level play
and high-level play are very different experiences. At low levels,
it's difficult to keep the characters alive. At high levels, it's difficult
to cause them a lot of harm. Although you should be impartial
overall, at low levels make sure that the challenges the PCs face
arent far too tough for them. There’ plenty of time at the higher
levels when you can feel free to take off the kid gloves and throw
whatever you want at them. High-level characters have the power
and resources to survive and overcome just about anything.

Low Level

As characters start out and even after they gain a few levels, the
following points apply. }
* Characters are fragile. Save bonuses, AC, and hit points are all,

low, 4
+ Characters can face only.a few. encounters before. resting. aed
+ Characters shouldnt stray far from civilization,

\*_Characters cant count on having a specific capability: Even if a

cleric prepares.a certain spell, for example, there's no guarantee
__that he will still have it in his repertoire when he really needs it.
Spell durations are short, and resources are few.
