Higher Levels

As characters gain more levels, the following points become in-

creasingly pertinent.

© Characters are very tough. Save bonuses, AC, and hit points are
all high.
Characters can survive many encounters before resting. At very, 4
high levels, the need for rest is rarely an issue, 4
Characters can provide their own food,.their own magic items,,
and their own healing. They can even raise each other from the}
dead,
Given time, characters can do almost anything. Even if the wiz-|
ard in the group doesnt know the disintegrate spell, you can
place a barrier that can only be bypassed -by disintegrate and
count on the party being able to get past it. (They can obtain
access to the spell in same way, or use their other resources to
achieve the same goal.) At very high levels, don't be afraid to
throw just about any challenge in the way of the characters. All
kinds of character actions—movement, durability, dealing}
damage, influencing others, accumulating information, and)
adaptation to circumstances and environments—have a higher
chance of success at higher levels.

CHARACTER POWER LEVELS
‘As the campaign progresses, the PCs get more powerful through
level advancement, the acquisition of money and magic items, and
the establishment of their reputations. You have to carefully
umatch this advancement with increasing challenges, both in foes
svho must be overcome and in the deeds thar must be performed.
In addition, however, you need to watch the PCs closely and
make sure that they neither get our of control because of their
increased power nor fail to use what's put before them. While it's
up to them to make decisions regarding their characters’ advance-
ment and what they do with their newfound abilities, it’s up to you
|:o keep.control of the campaign, maintain balance (see Keeping
Game Balance, page 13), and keep things running smoothly.

Character Wealth

One of the ways in which you can maintain measurable control on,
PC power is by strictly monitoring their wealth, including their)
magic items. Table 5-1; Character Wealth by Level is based on,
average treasures found in average encounters compared with the,
experience points earned in those encounters. Using that infor-
mation, you can determine how much wealth a character should
have based on her level.

The baseline campaign for the D&D game uses this “wealth by
level” guideline as.a basis for balance in adventures, No adventure
meant for 7th-level characters, for example, will require or assume
that the party possesses a magic item that costs 20,000 gp.

TABLE 5-1: CHARACTER WEALTH BY LeveL

Character Character

Level Wealth, Level Wealth
2nd 900 gp 12th 88,000 gp
3rd 2,700.gp 13th 110,000 gp
4th 5,400 gp Vth 150,000 gp
Sth 9,000 gp 15th 200,000 gp
6th 13,000 gp 16th 260,000 gp
7th 19,000 gp 1th 340,000 gp
&th 27,000 gp 18th 440,000 gp
9th 36,000 gp. 19th 580,000 gp

10th 49,000 gp 20th 760,000 gp

Mth 6,000 gp. —_

Player Characters out of Control __
Power can get out of hand. Power corrupts. PCs may do things that
show their arrogance, or their contempt for those below them, as |
they.advance in power. A 10th-level fighter may feel that he no,

longer has.to.treat the duke with respect since he can single-hand- |
edly defeat all the duke's soldiers. A powerful wizard might feel so}
unstoppable that she wantonly tosses around fireballs in the}
middle of town. While it's fine for PCs to enjoy their abilities as |

they advance in level (that’s the whole point), they shouldn't be
Lallowed to do whatever they wish. Even high-level characters

shouldnt run about. completely unchecked.
Players should always remember one fact: There's always someone.
more powerful. You should ser up your world with the idea that the.

PCs, while special, are not unique. Other characters, many.of them.

quite powerful, have come along before the PCs, Institutions of}
influence have had to deal with individuals of great power long.
before the PCs. The duke may have some powerful warrior or fighter
on retainer as a champion for when someone gets out of line. The |
city constabulary probably has a red of negation or a scroll of antimagic
field to deal with out-of-control wizards. The point is that NPCs swith

{resources will be prepared for great danger: The sooner the PCs.real-
Jize this, the less likely they will ran amok in your campaign world.

 

You may wish to build your own world_It's a.challenging and.
rewarding task, but it can also be a time-consuming one.

Once you have decided to create your own world, you face a
number of choices. Do you make it like the real world, drawing from
history. and real-world knowledge, or do you create something com-
pletely different? Do you draw from your favorite fictional setting or |

{create it all on your own? Do the laws of physics work as we know }

them, or is the world flar with a dome of stars overhead? Do you.use_|
the standard races, classes, and equipment in the Player's Handbook,or ,
do you create new ones? The questions alone are daunting, but for|
those who love world-building, they are also exciting.

So where do you start? There are two approaches to creating a
campaign world.

Inside Out; Start with a small area and build ourward. Donteven
worry about what the whole world looks like, or even the kingdom.
Concentrate first on a single village or town, preferably with a dun-
geon or other adventure site nearby, Expand slowly and only as
needed. When the PCs are ready to leave the initial area (which
might not be for ten or more playing sessions, depending on your
first adventures), expand outward in all directions so you're ready no
matter which way they go, Eventually, you will have an entire king-
dom developed, with the whale derived from what follows from the
initial starting point. Proceed to other neighboring lands, determin-
ing the political situation in each one, Keep accurate notes as you
play, for you may develop rumors of hostilities with a neighboring
kingdom before you ever develop the kingdom itself!

The advantage to this method is that you dont need to do a lot
of work to get started. Whip up.a small area—probably with a
small community—design an adventure, and go. This method
also ensures that you wont develop areas of the campaign that are
never visited by the PCs and that you can develop things (and
change your mind) as you go.

Outside In: Start with the big picture—draw a map of an entire
continent or a portion thereof. Alternatively, you could start with a
grand design for how a number of kingdoms and nations interact
or the outline of a vast.empire. You could even start with a.cosmol- |
ogy, deciding how the deities interact with the world, where the |
world is positioned in relation with other worlds, and what the|
world as. a whole looks like. Only after you have this level of con-

cept design worked out should you focus on a particular area.

When you begin more detailed work, start with large-scale basics. |
and work down to small-scale details. For example, after you have |
constructed your continent map, pick a single kingdom and create

ithe ruler or rulers. and the general conditions. From there, focus on
\some substate.or region within.the kingdom, develop who and

what lives there (and why), and pepper the region with a few hooks

 
