 

and secrets for later development, Finally, once you get down.to the
small scale—a single community, a particular patch of forest or
valley, or wherever you choose to start the campaign—develop the
area in great detail The specifics of the small area should reflect and
tie back to the basics you have set up for the larger areas.
This method ensures that once you have started the campaign, ,

you're already well on your way to having a complete setting.
{When things are moving along quickly in the campaign, you.can |
[focus on the characters and individual adventures, because the)
,wworld is mostly done. This method also allows you to use fore-)
shadowing of larger events, faraway places, and grander adven-
(tures early on in the campaign.

GEOGRAPHY

Campaigns need worlds. Worlds have geography. This means that
when creating your world, you need to place the mountains, the
,oceans, the rivers, the towns, the secret fortresses, the haunted
jforests, the enchanted places, and all the other locales and features, |
Af you want a.realistic world, use encyclopedias and atlases to)
jlearn more about topography, climate, and geography (natural,
and political). You only need the basics to create a fantasy world,|
unless you or your players are sticklers for accuracy, Research and
learn as much as you need to create a world that will please your
players. In general, however, if you know a little about how ter-
rain affects climate, how different types of terrain interact
(mountains usually follow coastlines, for example), and how both
[climate and terrain determine where people usually live, that
ishould be enough.
| When you're done, you can create the map or maps you need for
;your campaign.

Climate/Terrain Types
{There are three different climate types and eight different terrain
ltypes thar you need to be concerned with in the D&D game, al-
though you could create additional types for your own world.
These climate and terrain types are those referenced in monster
descriptions in the Monster Manual and in the wilderness en-
counter lists found in Chapter 3: Adventures,

You should assign each region of your world a climate/ter-|
rain type to designate what sort of landscape it has, what sea-,
sons and weather conditions prevail there, and what creatures.
inhabit the area.

Some of these types are incompatible. For example, without
some sort of magical event, you wont find a tropical rain forest (a
warm climate zone) next to an_arctic plain (a cold climate zone).
Some terrain.types are much more habitable to the common races
from which PCs are derived than others, although all have mon-

,sters, animals, and intelligent creatures native to them.

Cold: This climate type describes. arctic and subarctic areas.
{Any area that has winter conditions fora larger portion of the year
than.any other seasonal variation is cold.

 

   

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

HOW REAL IS YOUR FANTASY?

This section on worid-building assumes that your campaign is set in a
fairly realistic world. That is to say that while wizards cast spells, deities
channel power to clerics, and dragons raze villages, the world is round,
the laws of physics are applicable, and most people act like real people.
The reason for this assumption is that unless they are told otherwise,
this situation is what your players expect.

That said, you could create a world that is very different from even
these basic premises, Your campaign could be set within a hollow world,
on a flat world, or on the inside of a tube that spins around the sun.

You could change the laws of physics to produce a world with
objects or materials so light that they float, areas where time flows at a

 

 

Temperate: This climate type describes areas thar have alter-,
nating warm and cold seasons of approximately equal length.
Warm: This climate type describes tropical and subtropical
areas. Any area that has summer conditions for a larger portion of.
the year than any other seasonal variation is warm.
Aquatic: This terrain type is composed of fresh or salt water,
Desert: This terrain type describes any dry area with sparse
vegetation.
Plains: Any faitly flat area that is not a desert, marsh, or forest is.
considered plains.
Forest: Any area covered with trees is forest terrain.
Hills; Any area with rugged but not mountainous terrain.is
hills terrain.
Mountains: Rugged terrain that is higher in elevation than |
hills is considered mountains.
Marsh: Low, flat, waterlogged areas are marsh terrain.
Underground: Subterranean areas are designated as under-
[ground terrain.

E¢ology

Once you have determined the lay.of the land, you can develop.
what lives where.

The Monster Manual gives a climate/terrain.type for each kind
of creature. With thar information to work with, decide which
creatures live where within each region of your world, If you have
room on your map to mark such information, do so. It will help
you keep track of things later on, both when determining random,
encounters and when developing adventure plots, For example, if,
you know that the PCs are on their way to the village of Thorris,|
you can see that living in the marsh nearby are hags, harpies, and,
a black dragon that the travelers might encounter. You can also.use
this information fo create an adventure involving Thorris and the
black dragon in which the dragon coerces the trolls to attack the,
people living there.

Considering the ecology issues of the marsh helps you explain
the creatures’ existences. Whar do the hags eat? What about the
harpies? They must compete for resources, so do they avoid each
other, or do they fight? The world is a predator-heavy one, based on
the creatures described in the Monster Manual. Designing your
world’s ecology means coming up with a way to make sense of how
it all works together. Perhaps theres bountiful prey in most areas
that an.overall abundance of vibrant, energy-rich plant life might
help explain. Perhaps the predators prey upon each other. You dont
have to design a complete food chain, but giving thought to some
ecology issues will help you answer player questions later—and
that will help make your world seem real to them.

 

DEMOGRAPHICS

Once the geography is determined, you can populate your world.
This step is more important than monster placement and general
ecology, not only because the PCs will spend mote time in civi-

different rate, or the very real threat that the ocean might wash seafar-
rs off the side of the world so that they fall forever in an eternal water-
fall. One point to keep in mind if you're going to change premises that
we all take for granted, however, is that you should try to maintain
some consistency. If time passes more slowly as you move away from
the central Mountain of the Earth's Heart, then this fact should always
be true, The people of the world should understand and accept this
reality, If that's the way the world works, it wouldn't seem odd to them
You could establish a land where people are so truly good that no
government of organization is needed to maintain order or peace. Or
you could create a land where everyone is born evil, the scions of an
evil progenitor god, and they all work together for the downfall of good-
ness. Such people are not realistic, but they're certainly interesting.
