lized areas, but also because the players have real-world experi-
ences to measure their game experiences against when they're
among other people.

People, in general, live in the most.convenient places possible
They try to place their communities near sources of water and,
food, in comfortable climates, and close to. sources of transporta:
tion (seas, rivers, flat land to build roads on, and so on). Of course,

lexceptions exist, such asa town in the desert, an isolated commu:
\niry in the mountains, and a secret city in the middle of a forest or}.
atthe top of a mesa. But there is also always a reason for those ex-|
ceptions: The city at the top of the mesa is placed there for defense,
and the isolated community in the mountains exists because the
people there want to cut themselves off from the rest of the world.

Table 5-2: Random Town Generation shows a breakdown of dif-
ferent community sizes. Small communities are much more
common than larger ones.In general, the number of people living
in small. towns and larger communities should be about 1/10 to
\1/15 the number living in villages, hamlets, thorps, or outside a}

\community atall, You might create a metropolis at the civilized)
center of the world with 100,000 people, but such a community,
should be the exception, not the rule. The more closely a city’s loca-
tion conforms to the ideal parameters (near food and water, in a
comfortable climate, close to sources of transportation), the larger it
can become. A secret city on top of a mesa mighr exist, but it's
unlikely to be a metropolis. People living in cities need food, so if no
nearby sources of food (farms, plenty of wild animals, herds of live-
stock) are present, the community needs efficient transportation

|sources.to ship food in. Ir needs some other renewable resource as
swell, such as nearby forests to harvest for timber or minerals to
mine, to produce something to exchange for the imported food.

Small, agricultural-based communities are likely. to surround a
larger city and help to supply the city population with food. In
such cases, the larger community is probably a source of defense (a
walled town, a castle, a community fielding a large number of de-
ployable troops) that inhabitants of surrounding communities can
seek refuge in or rely on to defend them in times.of need.

~Sometimes,.a number of nearby small communities clump to-
gether with no large community at the center. These small villages
and hamlets form a support network, and the local lord often |
boasts a centrally located castle or fortress used as a defensible |
place to which the villagers can flee when threatened.

On a larger scale, the borders of kingdoms and countries usu-
ally coincide with physical, geographical barriers. Countries that
draw boundaries through plains, farms, and undulating hills usu-
ally fight a lot of battles over such borders and have to redraw the
borders frequently until they.coincide with natural barriers.
Therefore, mountain ranges, rivers, or abrupt landscape changes
should usually mark the borders between lands in your world

GENERATING TOWNS
When.the PCs come into.a town and you need to generate facts
about that town quickly, you can use the following material. To ran-
domly determine the size of a.community, roll on Table s—2 below,

 

Taste 5-2: RANDOM TOWN GENERATION

d% Town Size Population® GP Limit
01-10 Thorp 20-80 40 gp
1-30 Hamlet 81-400, 100 gp
31-50 Village 401-900 200 gp
51-70 Small town 901-2,000 800 gp
71-85 Large town 2,001~5,000 3,000 gp
86-95 Small city 5,001-12,000 15,000 gp
96-99 Large city 12,001-25,000 40,000 gp
100 Metropolis 25,001.or more 100,000 gp

* Adult population. Depending on the dominant race of the
community, the number of nonadults will range from 10% to 40%
of this figure

Community Wealth and Population }
Every.community has a gold piece limit based on its size and pop-|
ulation. The gold piece limit (see Table 5-2) is an indicator of the
price of the most expensive item available in that community.
{Nothing that costs more.than.a.community's gp limit is available

[for purchase in that. community. Anything having a price under

that limit is most likely available, whether it be mundane or magi-

cal, While exceptions are certainly possible (a boomrown near a

newly discovered mine, a farming community impoverished after.

a prolonged drought), these exceptions are temporary;.all commu-,
nities will conform to the norm over time,

‘To determine the amount of ready cash in a. community, or the
total value of any given item of equipment for sale at any given.
time, multiply half the gp limit by 1/10 of the community's popu-
lation. For example, suppose a band of adventurers brings a bagful
of loot (one hundred gems, each worth 50 gp) into a hamlet of 90
people. Half the hamler’s gp limit times 1/10 its population equals

[450 (100 + 2 = 50; 90+ 10 = 9; SOX 9 = 450), Therefore, the PCs can,
only convert nine of their recently acquired gems to coins on the

ispot before exhausting the local cash reserves, The coins will not

be all bright, shiny gold pieces. They should include a large

number of battered and well-worn silver pieces and copper pieces,
as well, especially in a small or poor community,

If those same adventurers hope.to buy longswords (price 15 gp
each) for their mercenary hirelings, they'll discover that the
hamlet can offer. only 30.such swords for sale, because the same.
450 gp limit applies whether you're buying or selling ina given,
community. +

Power Center for the Community

Sometimes all the DM needs to know about 2 community is who,
holds the real power. To determine this fact randomly, use_the
table below, modifying the d20 roll according to the size of the
community. As indicated in the list of modifiers, any community

the size of a small city or larger has more than one power center,

‘The types of power centers—conventional, monstrous, nonstan-
dard, and magical—are defined below.

Power CENTERS

Community Size Modifier to 420 roll
Thorp 4

Hamlet, +0

Village +

Small. town +2

Large town 8

Small city +4 (roll twice)
Large city +5 (roll three times)
Metropolis. +6 (roll four times)
420 Power Center Type
13 or less Conventional*
14-18 Nonstandard

19 of more Magical

* 5% of communities witha conventional power center have a
monstrous power center in addition to the conventional one,

Conventional; The community has a traditional_form of,
government—a mayor, a town council, a noble ruling over the}
surrounding area under a greater liege, a noble ruling the commu-|
nity as a.city-state. Choose whichever form of government. seems)

_most appropriate to the area. 4

Monstrous: Consider the impact on a community of aj
dragon_that occasionally makes nonnegotiable demands and}
insists on being consulted in major decisions, or. a nearby ogre
tribe thar must be paid a monthly tribure, or a mind flayer

\secretly controlling the minds of many of the townsfolk. A
monstrous. power center represents any influence (beyond just

 
