the viable heir to the throne would be the oldest member.of the

bloodline capable of casting spells. In a true.magocracy.in which
the ruler is the most powerful spellcaster, the monarch may be
challenged at certain specific times each year by contenders who
believe themselves to be more powerful than she is.

In a magocracy, arcane spellcasters usually have the most rights,
and freedoms, and nonspellcasters are looked down upon. Divine}

\spellcasters sometimes are.outlawed, butusually they are treated.

as secondary to arcane spellcasters (although still higher in station;

‘than those who cast no spells),

Such societies are often magic-rich. They are likely to have col-
leges that teach the intricacies of spellcasting, and magic-using
units in their military organizations. They may use magic for even
mundane tasks, Very rarely, a.magocracy treats magic in the oppo-
site way, as a closely guarded secret. Nonnoble arcane spellcasters
would then be forbidden.

Theocracy: A theocracy is.a political system in which clerics

 

(lor druids) rule, The ruler is the direct representative of the deity |
Lor deities that the theocracy is based upon. Most theocracies are)
\similar to monarchies, but once a ruler is chosen, he normally,
remains in the position for life. The people cannot question the |

word of a deity or his representative.
Some theocracies see their leaders as ascending to divinity or
semidivinity in and of themselves, Past (and sometimes present)
rulers are worshiped as deities, Such rulers wield absolute power,
and their bloodline carries the divine right to rule, so their succes-
{sors are chosen from their descendants. A ruler doesnt need to be
lacleric in. such a case (although he often is), since he is not a
divine representative but a deity, In such a theocracy, it's possible
that even an infant can be chosen as a.rulerif he has divine blood.
Others; Ir's not too difficult to imagine a political system based on
rule by other classes, by the oldest, the strongest, or the wealthiest
For your world, use whatever criteria you wish to determine the
\political structure of a group, Most of the time, however, the stranger
the criterion, the smaller the group. For example, a kingdom where
the ruler is determined by a test of skill, intelligence, and stamina
might be.expansive, but a land where the ruler is.the most talented

bard would probably be small. Being able to play the lure well is,

impressive, but it doesnt necessarily ensure fitness to rule.

Cultural Tendencies
Human societies run.the gamut of different political structures,
Other races seem to favor one ora few over the others.

Dwarves: Dwarves usually form monarchies, although a few
theocracies dedicated to dwarven gods are possible; Dwarves are
extremely lawful and rigid intheir politics, fearing lawlessness
and anarchy, They value order and security over personal freedom,
and thus are inclined to judge political matters on what's best for
she greatest number concerned, Dwarven societies usually have a
strict and exacting code of laws.

Elves: Elves are likely.to live within monarchies as well. Of all
races, however, elves are the most likely to adopt a magocracy.
Elves prize individual freedom and fear tyrants. Elf rulers judge
each situation and case individually rather than according to a
strict, codified set of laws.

Gnomes: Gnomes favor small monarchies, although gnome
democracies, gnome republics, and gnome clans exist.as well, Like
halflings, gnomes have less need for a strong government and
enjoy personal freedom, Gnome kings and queens. usually have
only asmall impact on the daily life of their subjects, and they usu-

sally do not carry.as elevated a status above the common.gnome as
ja human regent might over her human subjects.

| Halflings: Since they. are usually nomadic and most often live

in small groups, halflings prefer a sort of tribal or clan system, Rul-
ership is often bestowed upon the eldest member of a group, al
though. most halflings rule with a light touch. True halfling leader-
ship is based around the family unit, with parents giving direction,

 

tochildren, Halflings, more than any other race, seem to naturally.
work well with each other. They have little need for a strong ruling |
hand ora. codified set of laws to maintain order and peace.

Orcs and Other Chaotic Evil Cultures: Orcs are usually 100
wild and corrupt to yalue.a strict system of government other than
irule by the strong, Orc leaders rule by intimidation and threats
jand thus usually command only a small populace, (Ore nations are
rare.) If an ore leader fails to rule, it is because he was weak. Most
chaotic evil cultures tend to have small populations unless many,
aindividuals are cowed by.a single powerful master,

Goblins and Other Lawful Evil Cultures: Goblins live in
tribal communities that bear the trappings of monarchy. The
truth, however, is that their government is rulership bythe strong.
1f a goblin ruler can be killed, his killer usually takes his place.
LawfuLevil humanoids often use a similar system, although
kobolds often establish magocracies, and more sophisticated cul:
{tures frequently develop codified laws and rules of succession.
Such complex societies are rife with backstabbing and betrayals,
\though, exemplifying the very definition of Byzantine politics.

High- Level Characters
Sometimes high-level characters build their own castles and estab-,
lish their own territories, This usually occurs either on land
granted to.them.by a ruler.or in an area of relatively unclaimed
wilderness that they have cleared. A just or generous character is
likely to draw people toward her stronghold or cleared area.
Before she knows it, she’s a ruler.

How the character governs is completely up.to her. However, the |
NPC involved will react appropriately to charactet actions and]
decrees. In exchange for protection, plots of land, and fair. rulership,
a character can expect to.collect taxes or tithes from those she rules.
Neglect, mistreatment, or overtaxation of the populace can lead to a.
revolt, which might take the form of an appeal to another more.
powerful lord to depose ot conquer the character, hired assassins
making attempts against the character's life, or an outright uprising.
in which the peasants wield their pitchforks against theit ruler.

In reality, however, such events are rare, More often than not,
people live with the ruler that they have—for good or ill—for a
long time. Those under a poor or unjust ruler will suffer for
months or years before they feel compelled to act.

LEGALISSUES

You dont have to develop a legal code for each country you invent

Assume.common-sense laws are in place. Murder, assault, theft,

and treason are illegal and are punishable by imprisonment or

death, As long as the laws make sense and the authorities are fairly

consistent in enforcing them (or it's clear why they're not consis-

tent), the.players wont think twice about the law, Develop a few

unusual laws as points of interest, such as these examples.

* In one barony in the Shield Lands, lying is illegal, punishable
by three days in the pillory,

* Inthecity of Highfolk, iris against the law to mistreat an animal.

+ Anyone swearing red in the sightof the emperor is imprisoned
for one month.

Some places might have laws that directly affect adventurers.
These laws might specify which weapons can be owned or catried
by nonnobles or prohibit the use of some weapons. even by,
nobles, restricting their use to the royal guard. These laws might
restrict.or prohibit magic use. They might limit the number of |
well-armed people who can gather publicly without a permit or
sanction, All these Jaws would be put in place ifthe rulerorrulers |
of the area.were concerned about powerful people roaming!
around uncontrolled—a legitimate worry to those in power. No}
king, duke, or mayor is going to want independent adventurers to
be more. powerful than his own guards, lackeys, or troops (and
‘thus himself) unless he trusts them absolutely or has some way to
control them.

 
