 

SOCIAL CLASSES
Most societies are, to one degree or another, class-based, Use these
easy definitions for the typical society.

Upper Class: Nobles, the wealthiest of merchants, and the most
important leaders (guildmasters, for example) make up the upper |
class. Lawmakers, administrators, and other officials are drawn
from this class, Having noble blood or being a member of a wealthy.)

jmerchant family allows entrance into the class by birth, while)
attaining wealth or significant position can raise one to this status, |

By. virtue of their wealth, adventurers are likely to rise to the up-
per class quickly. However, they may_be rejected by other mem-

bers of the upper class based on how society around them views
sword-wielding, spell-slinging: self-governing mercenaries. Other
members of the upper class might look upon adventurers as
heroes, but they are just as likely to look upon them as dangerous
threats to public safety (as well as their personal safety) and to the
,existing sociopolitical structure.

Middle Class: Merchants, master artisans, educated profes-|

sionals, and most significant guild members make up the middle}
|class. Lesser officials such as tax collectors and rown clerks are)
sometimes drawn from the middle class, This status is normally
based on one’s occupation and education. Its primary determinant
for membership is not birth, bur wealth.

Lower Class; Tradesfolk, journeymen, laborers, subsistence
farmers, impoverished freeholders, personal servants, and virtu-
ally everyone else are members of the lower class. Members of the

lower class tend to be poorer and less educated than middle-class
tpcople. While sometimes a council of elders.or some similar body
jexists to watch over the interests of and argue for the lower class,
umost of the time no officials or lawmakers come from these ranks,

Slaves: Some cultures (usually evil ones) practice slavery.

{Slaves are lower in station than even members of the lower class.
,Though they need not be uneducated or-even.unskilled, most
\slaves are laborers or servants.

MAGIC IN YOUR WORLD
Some DMs create cities in their campaigns that function just like
medieval historical towns. They are populated by people who)
aren't accustomed to (or who don't believe in) magic, who dont!
know anything about magical or mythical monsters, and who!
have never seen a magic item.

This sort of creative work is a mistake. It will cause your players
serious strain in their belief in the reality of your world for them
to see that they wield spells and magic items, and the lands and
dungeons surrounding the city.are filled with magic and mon-
sters, but-yet in the middle of the city everything looks and acts
like Europe during the Middle Ages.

The presence of magic in your game world forces you to deviate
from.a truly historical setting. When you create anything for your

jsvorld, the idea that magic could possibly alter it should be in the
[back of your mind, Would the king simply surround his castle
with a wall when levitate and fly spells are common? How do the
guards of the treasury make sure that someone doesn't just tele-
port in or slip through the walls while ethereal?

Unless you are going to. run.a divergent game of some sort,
magic is prevalent enough in the world that it will always be taken
into account by smart individuals, A merchant wouldn't be flab-
bergasted by the idea that someone might try to steal from her
while invisible. A swindler would be aware that someone might
be able to detect his thoughts or his lies.

Magic shouldn't be something that common people are
hunaware of, Spellcasters may_be fairly rare in the big picture, but
ithey'te. common enough that people know that when Uncle Rufus
[falls off the back of the wagon, they could take him to the temple

to have the priests heal the wound (although the average peasant
probably couldn't afford the price). Only the most isolated farmer |
might not see magic or the results of magic regularly.

Here are a few points to consider when fitting magic into your

world,
+A tavern frequented by adventurers might have a "No detec-
tions” sign above the bar to allow the patrons to relax in an!
atmosphere where they dont need to worry about someone
discerning their alignments, reading their thoughts, figuring
which of their irems are magical, and so on.
Merchants might jointly employ a small squad of wizards who
wander about the marketplace invisibly while watching for,
thieves, casting detect thoughts on suspicious characters, and.
using see invisibility to look for magic-using robbers. J
The town guard might employ a spellcaster or two (or more) to
supplement its defensive strength, deal with unruly aca
ers, and help facilitate interrogations,
Acourt might use detect thoughts or discern liesto help make accu
rate judgments in important cases.
A town might use simple spells to make life easier, such as

— continual flame to make a sort of streetlight. Very sophisticated
| or wealthy cities might use magic portals to dispose of sewage
| and carpets of flying to deliver urgent messages.

Magic Items

The magic items described in Chapter 7 all have prices. The as-
sumption is that,.while they are rare, magic items.can be bought
and sold as any other commodity can be. The prices given are far
beyond the reach of almost everyone, but the very rich, including
mid- to high-level PCs, can buy and sell these items or even have |
spellcasters make them to order. In very large. cities, some shops}
might specialize in magic items if their clientele is very wealthy or |
includes a large number of adventurer (and such shops would!
have lots of magical protections to ward away thieves), Magic.
items might even be available in normal markets and shops occa-
sionally. For example,.a weaponsmith might have a few magic
weapons for sale along with her normal wares,

Superstitions
Just because magic works and most people are aware of it doesnt
mean they know exactly how it works or when it’ in effect. Super
stitions (ritual activity that doesnt produce actual results) are still
likely to be common. To add some flavor to your world and provide
details that convey both the quirks and underlying fears and con-
cerns of a society, invent some superstitions (or adapt some from.
the real world). Consider the following ideas to get you started
+ Common folk believe that particular charms and trinkers sold
by a vendor are lucky, when actually they have no magical
power (such asa rabbit's foot in the real world)

+ Insome.cultures, special hand signs or spoken words are oblig-

atory in certain situations (such as saying “Gesundheit!” after a
sneeze)
Someone claims to be able.to. see. omens in the movements of
birds, Does he have a good reputation because he tells supersti-
tious people what they want to hear, or because he actually has
some sort of magical ability?

Restrictions on Magic
In some civilized areas, the use of magic might be restricted or
prohibited. A license might be required, or perhaps official per-
mission from the local ruler would enable a spellcaster to use his
powers, but without such permission, magic use is forbidden. In|
such a place, magic items and in-place magical effects are rare, bur,
protections against magic might not be,
Some localities might prohibit specific spells, 1t could be.a.crime
to cast any spells used ro steal or swindle, such as those that bestow |
Linvisibiliry or produce illusions. Enchantments (particularly charm
{spells, compulsion effects, suggestion spells, and domination effects)
jtend to be readily forbidden, since they rob their subjects of free
will. Destructive spells are likewise prohibited, for obvious reason,
