 

BUILDING A

The rules in the previous section leave a lot of room for flexibility,
when it comes to creating your world. However, they assume a few. |
basic aspects: a. medieval level of technology, a Western European,
flavor, and a moderately historical basis. You might want to reach |
[beyond these boundaries and create a very different sort of world. |

SOCIETY/CULTURE

|You.can deviate from the typical campaign simply by changing the
cultural basis of the real-world history upon which it is modeled.
Establishing an African, Mesoamerican, or Arabian campaign can
be rewarding and entertaining. Dont, however, feel limited by the
culture you have chosen. If you dont like the fact that most his-
-torical African warriors didn't wear metal armor, ignore it. Though.
jthe default cultural assumption for most D&D game worlds is)
| medieval Europe, most of those worlds deviate widely from his-)
\tory, too. Don't forget all the other basic factors of setting design,
mentioned earlier, either. Lots of magic that actually works will
change an Arabian campaign as much as a European one.

Asian Culture

As an extended example, assume a DM decides that she wants to
Create a campaign setting based not on Western culture, but Asian.
\Specifically, she wants to tailor her creation (in tone and look) to
(feudal Japan.and ancient China. She decides not.to change the PC
jrace selections but disallows anyone from taking bard as a class,
Leuling thar it's strictly Western. She changes the name of the paladin
{class to samurai, and she adjusts the powers of the.class.to have anon-
{religious basis by basing the class's special abilities instead on inner
[ki power. She designs new classes for ninjas, wu jen, and kensai.
| Taking a look at the weapon, armor, and equipment lists in
Chapter Z.of the Player's Handbook, she sees that most.of that mate-
rial fits herneeds, but she adds a number of weapons that she finds
in her research (detailed on Table 5-3; Asian Weapons).

Asian Weapons: All the weapons on Table 7~5; Weapons in the.
Player's Handbook (page 116) work with an Asian campaign, In|
particular, the dagger, trident, shuriken, kama, nunchaku, siang-|
ham, kukri, halfspear, shortspear, longspear, handaxe, shortbow, .
composite shortbow, composite longbow, quarterstaff, light flail,
light crossbow, sickle, scythe, club, and battleaxe are appropriate.

The new weapons on Table $~3; Asian Weapons are detailed below.

Blowgun: This weapon is used.to propel small needles a long dis-
tance, Itis silent, and its needles most often are.used to poison foes.

Needles, Blowgun; These 2-inch-long iron. needles are sold in

,small wooden cases of 20, A full case is so light thar its weight is
snegligible. The tips of the needles are often coated with poison
isuch as greenblood oil, bloodroot, blue whinnis, shadow essence,
jordeathblade,

Wakizashi: This small, slightly curved short sword is made with
askill only masterful weaponsmiths possess, It counts as a master-
work weapon and grants its wielder a +1 bonus on attack rolls. A
masterwork weapon’ bonus on attack rolls does not stack with an
enhancement bonus on attack rolls.

Kusari-Gama: This small sickle is attached to a length of chain.
A kusari-gama is an exotic weapon that has reach, It can strike
opponents 10 feet away, In addition, unlike other weapons with

sreach, it can be used against an adjacent foe. It can be used in all
irespects like a spiked chain (see page 115 of the Player's Handbook)
for trip attacks, disarming other foes, and using its wielder’s Dex-
hterity modifier instead of her Strength modifier in attack rolls.
Katana: While functionally a bastard sword, this sword is the
,most masterfully made nonmagical weapon in existence. It counts
as a._masterwork weapon and grants its wielder a +1 bonus on}
attack rolls, A katana is too large to use in one hand without spe-|

 

 

cial training; thus, it is an exotic weapon. A Medium creature.can,
use.a_katana.two-handed as a martial weapon, or a Large creature,
can.use it one-handed in the same way. With Exotic Weapon Pro-|
ficiency (katana), a Medium creature can use it in one hand. A

{masterwork weapon's bonus on attack rolls does not stack with an

jenhancement bonus on attack rolls,

._ Other Asian Elements; The DM designs her world, filling it with
feudal lords who each serve a more powerful lord above them and
rule over the people belosy them in station. Monasteries are common, ,

.with monks serving alongside clerics as representatives of spiritual
enlightenment. Certain arts, such as poetry, theater, and fine art, take |
ona greater importance in society (which is ironic, since she has done.
away with the bard), and so entertainment becomes. skill thar almost
every character needs to succeed in this campaign. +

TECHNOLOGY
(Technology defines a setting as much as culture does, If gunpow-
Ider is available, the world changes. Suddenly, a commoner with a
[rifle is @ serious threat 10 an armored soldier, and high castle walls
Tare no longer proof against invasion, which makes people, in turn,
less elitist and isolationist.

Extremely Law Tech

A campaign set in.a Bronze Age world where weapons are. more
crude and armor is less advanced, or even.an_Ice Age/Stone Age
world where metal is barely available (if at all), can be very. inter-
esting. In such a campaign, survival often becomes.acentral focus,.
since finding food and keeping warm are. suddenly much more
difficult. There might not be shops from which to obtain goods.
(particularly in.an Ice Age/Stone Age campaign) or even safe!
places to spend the night, Killing a huge beast means not only vic-}
tory, it also means meat.to eat, fur or skin to wear, and bones to.
fashion into weapons and tools.

Stone Age: Attacks with weapons made of bone or stone have a
—2 penalty on attack and damage rolls (with a minimum damage
of 1). Stone-age cultures don't make bone or stone chainmail—
they use leather, padded, wood, or bone armor. Historically, only a
few exceptions to this rule exist, and those forms of armor are all
made of bronze.

Bone has hardness 6 and 10 hit points per inch of thickness.
Stone has hardness 8 and_15 hit points per inch of thickness.

Bronze Age: Weapons of bronze, while clearly inferior to steel
items, are not nearly as bad as stone or hone weapons. Attacks with
weapons made of bronze have. a—1 penalty on attack and damage rolls
(with a minimum damage of 1). Bronze shields have the same protec-
tive value.as steel shields, and their cost and weight are the same. A
bronze shield has hardness 9 (compared to iron's 10), however. A
small bronze shield has 7 hit points, and a large bronze shield has 14
hit points, While the relative softness of bronze diminishes its useful-
ness in weapons, it allows elaborately sculpted bronze breastplates. A
bronze breastplate’s armor bonus is 1 lower than a steel breasrplare’s
(+4), but its maximum Dexterity bonus is 1 higher (also +4),

Bronze has hardness 9 and 20 hit points per inch of thickness.

Advancing the Technology Level
Conversely, a DM could advance the pseudohistorical basis for the
game a few hundred years and set his campaign in a Renaissance-
style setting. Doing this would allow him to incorporate weapons,
and maybe a few more bits of equipment from a little Jater in his-|
tory, Clocks, hor air balloons, printing presses, and even crude
\steam engines might be available. Most important.to.PCs,.how-}
ever, would be the new weapons (see Table S~4: Renaissance}
Weapons), which are detailed below [
__Renaissance Firearms: Firearms should be meated like other
ranged projectile weapons. Exotic Weapon Proficiency (firearms)
(gains a.creature proficiency with all firearms; otherwise, a—+
penalty is assessed on all attack rolls.
