TABLE 5-3: ASIAN WEAPONS

Simple Weapons Cost Dmg (S)___Dmg (M) Critical Range Increment___ Weight Damage Type
Ranged Weapons
Blowgun. 1 gp 1 1 x2 10.f. 2 Ib. Piercing
Needles, blowgun (20) 1 gp = = = ’ =
Martial Weapons
Light Melee Weapons
Wakizashi? 300 gp 1d4 1d6 19-20/x2 = 3.Ib. Slashing
Exotic Weapons
Light Melee Weapons
Kusari-gama? 10gp 1d4 146 2 = 3b. Slashing
One-Handed Melee Weapons
Katana* 400 gp 148 1410 19-20/x2 = 6b, Slashing
1 No weight worth noting
2 Except as indicated, treat a wakizashi as a. masterwork short sword,
3 Reach weapon.
4 Except as indicated, treat a katana asa. masterwork bastard sword.
TABLE 5-4: RENAISSANCE WEAPONS
Exotic Weapons (Firearms) Cost Dmg (S) Dmg (M) Critical Range Increment Weight Damage Type
One-Handed Ranged Weapons
Pistol 250 gp 148 1410 x3 50 ft 3 Ib. Piercing
Two-Handed Ranged Weapons
Musket 500 gp 1d10 1412 3 150 ft. 10 Ib. Piercing
Explosive Weapons! Cost Damage Blast Radius Range Increment Weight Damage Type
Bomb 150 gp 2d6 sft 1Of. Tb, Fire
Smoke bomb 70 gp Smoke ! 10 ft. Lib. -

{1 Bombs and smoke bombs require no proficiency-to use

Gunpowder: While gunpowder burns (1 ounce consumes itself

int round and illuminates like a sunrod) or even explodes in the
jright conditions, it is chiefly used to propel a bullet out of the
barrel of a pistol or a rifle, or it is formed into. a bomb (see. below),
An.ounce of gunpowder is needed to propel.a bullet. Gunpowder
is sold in small kegs (15-pound capacity, 20 pounds total weight,
250.gp each) and in water-resistant powder horns (2-pound capac-
ity and total weight, 35 gp for a full powder horn). If gunpowder
gets wet, it cannot be used to fire a butler.

Bullets: These large, round, lead projectiles are sold in bags of 10.
for 3 gp. A bag of bullets weighs 2 pounds.

Pistol: This firearm holds a single shot and requires a standard.
action to reload.

Musket: The musket holds a single shot and requires a standard
action to reload,

Renaissance Explosive Weapons: These explosives require
no proficiency to use. Scoring a hit with one of these weapons
requires a successful ranged touch attack aimed at a square. A
|direct hit with an explosive weapon means that the weapon has hit
ithe creature it was aimed_at.and everyone within the blast radius,

including that creature, takes the indicated damage.

If the explosive misses, ir still lands somewhere. Roll 1d8 to
determine the misdirection of the throw, with 1 indicating the
direction back toward the thrower and 2 through 8 counting
clockwise around the sarget square, (See she diagram on page 158
of the Player's Handbook.) Then, count 1 square away from the
target square for every two range increments.of the attack,

Bomb: This round gunpowder bomb must be lit before it is
thrown. Lighting a bomb is a move action. The explosive deals 2d6
.points of fire damage, Anyone caught within the blast radius can
ymake.a DC 15 Reflex save to take half damage.
| Smoke Bomb; This cylindrical bomb must be lit before it is
thrown. Lighting it is amove action. Two rounds after iris lit, this
nondamaging explosive emits a cloud of smoke (as.a fog cloud
spell) in a 20-foor radius. A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses

the smoke in 4 rounds;.a strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog |

in 1 round.

2 See description:

Modern and Future Technology

You could create a setting with high technology. Perhaps a starship!
from a much more highly advanced civilization landed or crashed
in the campaign world. The crash might have happened long ago,
so that now the starship is a mysterious, specialized dungeon set-
ting in its own right, with a special sort of magic (advanced tech-
nology) and monsters (aliens and robors that survived the crash)
Or perhaps the advanced civilization was native to the campaign
world but is now long gone, leaving behind remnants of its
ancient cities filled with strange secrets, which now form sites for
adventures. In such a campaign, you could decide that many of the
strange creatures found in.the world result from ancient genetic
engineering. Finally, perhaps members of some advanced civiliza-
tion have.come to the campaign world with their advanced sci-
ence and now serve as patrons ot overlords. They dole our their
technology in small doses to those who serve them well.

No matter what rationale you use to place high-tech items in
your game, they should always be like yery rare magic items.or
artifacts—difficult or impossible to reproduce. Treating them as
artifacts (see page 277) is most.appropriate. They shouldn't domi-
nate the game, but should serve as an occasional diversion, Ir's fun
for some players when their characters occasionally use a big gun
against.a dragon rather than.a sword, and it’s an interesting diver
sion to run into a warbot in a dungeon rather than a band of trolls.
But ina fantasy game, most players dont want to do that.every day,

Some advanced technological weapons are detailed below,
These weapons haye no costs provided, because they cannot be
manufactured. They can only be found as artifacts.

These weapon statistics also show how to rate something in
your game that you might not know how to handle. Since you!
probably have.a good idea what a pistol is like, or a laser, you.can.
deal with such situations on firmer ground. For example, you!
might want to develop a trap that fires large needles rapidly. You |
could use the statistics for an automatic rifle or extrapolate from
them.to.get what you want. When explaining the trap, you could

\even describe it to the players as resembling a machine gun to
help them understand it.

 

 
