Laser Pistol: A laser pistol fires fifty. times before a.newenergy
cell (weight 1 pound) needs to be reloaded and has arate of fire
equal to the attacker's number of attacks, Reloading the weapon is
a move action.

Antimatter Rifle: An antimatter rifle is a devastating short-range,
attack weapon that can be fired once per round. It holds an energy.,
cell (weight 1 pound) that is depleted after two shots. Reloading

ithe weapon is a move action.

| Laser Rifle: A laser rifle fires thirty times before a new energy,

cell (weight 1.pound) needs to be reloaded and has a rate of fire)
equal to the attacker's number of attacks. Reloading the weapon is,
amaove action,

Flamer: A flamer can be-fired once per round. Unlike other
ranged weapons, it deals damage to every square in a S-foot-wide
stream extending out tothe flamer's maximum range (200 feet). It
contains a fuel pack with enough concentrated flamer fuel for ten
shots. Installing a new fuel pack requires a full-round action.

ADVENTURING|

When characters reach higher levels, their grasp extends to other
dimensions of reality—or, as we call them, planes of existence.
The PCs may rescue a friend from the evil depths of the Abyss, or
sail the shining waters of the River Oceanus. They might hoist a
jtankard with the friendly giants of Ysgard, or face the chaos of
[Limbo to reach a wizened githzerai sage,

The planes of existence in the D&D game world make up the

D&D cosmology, which is the topic of this section. These planes
jare strange and usually dangerous environments;.the strangest of
them are as unlike the so-called "real world” as any place can be.
While planar adventures can be dangerous, they can be wondrous
\as well. The characters might visit a plane composed entirely of
solid fire, or test their mettle on a battlefield where the fallen are
resurrected with each dawn.

Because the spells required to reach other planes are all 6th
level and higher, planar adventures are almost exclusively the,
province of high-level PCs. Not only are the other planes full of
powerful outsiders and elementals, but the planes themselves.
have deadly environments that only_well-prepared adventurers,
can withstand.

The D&D cosmology has.twenty-seven different planes of exis-
tence, offering everything from the normality of the Material
Plane (the real world) to the serenity of the Astral Plane to the per-
vasive evil of the Nine Hells. This section details the traits and char-
acteristics that certain planes have in common and features a short
description of each plane that includes a possible adventure site.

WHAT IS A PLANE?
The planes of existence are different realities with interwoven con-
nections. Except for rare linking points, each plane is effectively its
own universe with its. own.natural laws. The planes are home to
more powerful variations of familiar creatures and unique mon-
sters, all of which have adapted to their strange environments.
The planes break down into.a number of general types: the
Material Plane, the Transitive Planes, the Inner Planes, the Outer

Planes, and the demiplanes.
Material Plane: This plane is the one most familiar to charac-
ters and is usually the “home base” fora standard D&D campaign.
‘The Material Plane tends to be the most Earthlike of all planes. and
joperates under the same-set of natural Jaws that our.own real.
| world does. Even though the Material Plane is a comfortable place
(for PCs, it is a strange and dangerous environment for many.crea-
tures that are native to other planes but find themselves on the
Material Plane at least remporarily (perhaps as the result of a.

summon. monster spell or similar magic).

Transitive Planes: These three planes have one important,
common characteristic: Each is used to get from one place.to|
another. The Astral Plane is a conduit to all other planes, while the |
Ethereal Plane and the Plane of Shadow both serve as means.of.

\transportation within the Material Plane they're connected to.
‘These planes have the strongest regular interaction with the Mate-

rial Plane and are often accessed by using various spells. They have
native inhabitants as well _

Inner Planes: These.six planes are manifestations of the basic,
‘building blocks of the universe. Each is made up ofa single typeof,
energy or element that overwhelms all others. The natives of a par-|
ticular Inner Plane are made of the same energy or elementas the

plane itself.

Outer Planes; The deities live on the Outer Planes, as do crea-
tures such as celestials, demons, and devils, Each of the seventeen |
Outer Planes has an alignment, representing a particular moral or

ethical outlook, and the natives of each plane tend to behave in
Jagreement with that plane's alignment. The Outer Planes are also,
jthe final resting place of souls from the Material Plane, whether,
jthat final rest takes the form of calm introspection or eternal
damnation.

Demiplanes; This catch-all category covers all extradimen-
sional spaces that function like planes but have measurable size
and limited access, Other kinds of planes are theoretically infinite
in size, but a demiplane might be only a few hundred feet across.
Access to demiplanes may be limited to particular locations (such.
as a fixed gateway) or particular situations (such as.a time of year

sora weather condition), Some demiplanes are created by powerful |
magic, some naturally evolve, and some appear according to the;
will of the deities.

In the D&D cosmology, also known as the Great Wheel, the}
planes are connected in a specific fashion, as depicted in the.dia-|
gram on page 153, (The diagram does not show demiplanes,)
because the location and even the existence of these extradimen-
sional spaces is constantly changing.)

PLANAR TRAITS
Each plane of existence has its own properties—the natural laws
of its universe.

Planar traits are broken down into.a number of general areas.
All planes have the following kinds of traits.

Physical Traits: These traits determine the laws of physics and
nature.on.the plane, including how gravity and time function

Elemental and Energy Traits: These traits determine the
dominance of particular elemental or energy forces,

Alignment Traits: Just as characters may be lawful neutral or
chaotic good, many planes are tied to a particular moral or ethical
outlook.

Magic Traits: Magic works differently from plane to plane, and
magic traits set the boundaries for what it can and cant do.

Physical Traits
The two most important natural laws set by physical traits are how
gtayity works and how time passes, Other physical traits pertain to
the size and shape ofa plane and how easily a planes nature can be
altered.
Gravity; The direction of gravity's pull may be unusual, and it,
might even change directions within the plane itself.

Normal Gnavity: Most planes have gravity similar to that of the|
Material Plane, That is, if something weighs 10 pounds on the)
, Material Plane, itweighs 10 pounds on the other planeaswell. The}
usual. rules for ability scores, carrying capacity, and encumbrance |
apply. Unless otherwise noted in a description, every plane in the}

D&D cosmology has the normal gravity trait.

Heavy Gravity: The gravity on a plane with this trait is much more
intense.than.on the Material Plane. As a result, Balance, Climb,
Jump, Ride, Swim, and Tumble checks incur a -2 circumstance

 
