 

penalty, as do all attack rolls, All item weights are effectively
doubled, which might affect a character's speed. Weapon ranges are
halved. A character's Strength and Dexterity scores are not affected.

Characters who fall ona heavy gravity plane take 1d10 points of
damage for each 10 feet fallen, to a maximum of 20410 points of |
damage.

No Gruvity: Individuals on.a plane with this trait merely float in|
|space, unless other resources (such as magic or force of will) are
lavailable to provide a direction for gravity’s pull.

Objective Directional Gravity: The strength of gravity ona plane]
jwith this trait is the same as on the Material Plane, but the direc-|
:tion is not the traditional “down” toward the ground. It may be

,down toward any solid object, at an angle to the surface of the
plane itself, or even upward, creating a chandelierlike world
where everyone has to hang on or be thrown out into the void.

In addition, objective directional gravity may change from
splace.to place. The direction of “down” may vary, so individuals
jmay. suddenly find themselves falling upward (similar to the,
jrewerse gravity spell) or walking up walls. 4

Travelers on planes with objective directional gravity tend to be |
cautious, No one wants to discover the hard way that the 100-foor
corridor ahead has become a 100-foot-deep pit.

Subjective Directional Gravity: The strength of gravity on a plane
with this trait is the same as on the Material Plane, but each indi-
vidual chooses the direction of gravity’s pull. Such a plane has no
gravity for unattended objects and nonsentient creatures. This

\sort of environment can be very disorienting to the newcomer,
|but is common on “weightless” planes such as the Plane of Air.

Characters on a plane with subjective directional gravity can
\move normally along a solid surface by imagining. "down" near
their feet, If suspended in midair, a character “flies” by merely
(choosing a “down’ direction and “falling” that way, Under such a

jprocedure, an individual “falls” 150 feet in the first round and 300
feet in each succeeding round. Movements straight-line only. In
order .to.stop, one has to.slow one’s. movement by changing the
designated “down” direction (again, moving 150 feet in the new
direction in the first round and 300 feet per round thereafter),

Ittakes a DC 16 Wisdom check to set a new direction of gravity.
as a free. action; this check can be made once per round. Any.char- |
acter who fails this Wisdom check in successive rounds receives a,
+6 bonus on subsequent checks until he or she succeeds.

Time: The rate of time's passage can vary on different planes,
though it remains constant within any particular plane. Time
becomes interesting when one moves from plane to plane, but it
still moves at the same apparent rate for the traveler.

In other words, time is always subjective for the viewer. If
someone is magically frozen in place for a year, at the end of that

.time he or she thinks mere seconds have passed. But to everyone
else, a year has elapsed,

The same subjectivity applies to various planes. Travelers may
idiscover that they'll pick up or lose time. while moving among the

planes, but from their point of view, time always passes naturally,

Normal Time: This trait describes the way time passes on the
Material Plane, One hour on.a plane with normal time equals one
hour on the Material Plane, Unless otherwise noted in a descrip-
tion, every plane in the D&D cosmology has the normal time trait.

Timeless: On planes with this trait, time still passes, bur the
effects of time are diminished. See the description of the Astral
Plane, page 154, for an example of how the timeless trait.can affect

.certain activities or conditions such as hunger, thirst, aging, the
effects of poison, and healing.

The danger of a timeless plane is that.once one leaves such a
jplane for one where time flows normally, conditions such as
{hunger and aging do occur retroactively. A character who hasnt
,eaten for ten years on a timeless plane might be ravenous (though

not dead), and one who has been “stuck” at age twenty for fifty
years might now reach age seventy in a heartbeat. Traditional tales.

of folklore tell of places where heroes live hundreds of years, only.,
to.crumble to dust as soon as they leave.

Shape and Size: Planes come in a variety of sizes and shapes.
Most planes (including all of those in the D&D cosmology) ate,

infinite, or at least so large thar they may as well be infinite.

Infinite: Planes with this trait go.on forever, though they may
have finire components within them (such as spherical worlds).
Or they may consist of ongoing expanses in two directions, like a
map that stretches out infinitely.

Morphic Traits: This trait measures how easily the basic!

[nature of a plane can be changed, Some planes are responsive to,
sentient thought, while others can be manipulated only by
extremely powerful creatures. And some planes respond to. pie
ical or magical efforts.

Alterable Morphic: On a plane with this trait, objects remain
where they are (and what they are) unless affected by physical

force or magic. You can build a castle, animate a statue, or grow

Tcrops in an alterable plane, changing your immediate enviton-
jment as a result of tangible effort. Unless otherwise noted ina

Tdescription, every plane in the D&D.cosmology other than the
Outer Planes has the alterable morphic trait.

Highly Morphic: On a plane with this trait, features.of the plane.
change so frequently that it's difficult to keep a particular area
stable, Such planes may react dramatically. to specific spells, sen-
tient thought, or the force of will. Others change for no reason. In
the D&D cosmology, Limbo is a highly morphic plane.

Magically Morphic: Specific spells can alter the basic material of a
plane with this trait, The Plane of Shadow, which can be drawn,
elsewhere and used to duplicate other spells, is a good example of |
a magically morphic plane.

Divinely Morphic: Specific unique beings (deities or similar great |
powers) have the ability to alter objects, creatures, and the land-
scape on planes with this trait. Ordinary characters find these
planes similar to alterable planes in that they may be affected by
spells and physical effort. But the deities may cause these arcas.to.
change instantly and dramatically, creating great kingdoms for
themselves, All of the Outer Planes except for Limbo are divinely
morphic, which is one reason deities live there,

Elemental and Energy Traits
Within the D&D cosmology, four basic elements and two types of
energy together make up everything, The elements are earth, air,
fire, and water. The types of energy are, positive and negative.

The Material Plane reflects a balancing of those elements and
energies; all are found there. Each of the Inner Planes is domi-
nated by one element or type of energy. Other planes may show
off various aspects of these elemental traits. Many planes in the
D&D cosmology have no elemental or energy traits; these traits
ate noted in a plane's description only when they are present

Air-Dominant: Mostly open space, planes with this trait have
just a few bits of floating stone. or other elements. They usually
have a breathable atmosphere, though such a plane may include
clouds of acidic or toxic gas. Creatures of the earth subtype, such
as earth elementals, are uncomfortable on air-dominant planes
because they have little or no natural earth to connect with, They
take no actual damage, however,

Earth-Dominant: Planes with this trait are mostly solid. Trav-
elers who arrive run the risk of suffocation (see page 304) if they
don't reach a.cavern or other pocket within the earth, Worse yet,
individuals withour the ability to burrow are.entombed in.the |
earth and mustdig their way out (5 feet per turn), Creatures of the |
air subtype, such as air elementals, are uncomfortable on earth-|
dominant planes because these planes are tight and claustropho-|
bic to. them. Bur they suffer no inconvenience beyond having dif
ficulty moving.

__Fire-Dominant: Planes with this trait are composed of flames
that continually burn without consuming their fuel source. Fire-
