dominant planes are extremely hostile to Material Plane creatures,
and those without resistance or immunity to fire are soon immo-
lated. Unprotected wood, paper, cloth, and other flammable mate-
rials catch fire almost immediately, and those wearing unprotected
flammable clothing catch on fire (see page 303). In addition, indi-|
viduals rake 3410 points of fire damage every round they are.on.a,
fire-dominant plane, Creatures of the water subtype are extremely,
\uncomfortable on fire-dominant planes, Those that are made of
water, such as water elementals, take double damage each round.,

While these conditions are typical for all sites on the Elemental,

Plane of Fire, the circumstances are. much worse at locations such.
as lava pools, magma rivers, and volcano springs. In the D&D cos-
mology, parts of some evil-aligned Outer Planes are also fire-dom-
inant, and they too have their unusually deadly locations.

Water-Dominant: Planes with this trait are mostly liquid. Vis-
itors who cant breathe water or reach a pocket of air will likely

,drown (see page 304). Creatures of the fire subtype are extremely
,uncomfortable on water-dominant planes. Those made of fire,
isuch as fire elementals, take 1d10 points of damage each round,

Positive-Dominant: An abundance of life characterizes planes,
with this trait. The two kinds of positive-dominant traits are,
minor positive-dominant and major positive-dominant.

A minor positive-dominant plane is a riotous explosion of life
in all its forms. Colors are brighter, fires are hotter, noises are
louder, and sensations are more intense as a result of the positive
energy swirling through the plane. All individuals in a positive-
dominant plane gain fast healing 2 as.an extraordinary ability.

Major positive-dominant planes go.even further.A creature on
a major positive-dominant plane must make a DC 15 Fortitude

save to avoid being blinded for 10 rounds by the brilliance of the

surroundings. Simply being on the plane grants fast healing 5 as
an extraordinary abiliry. In addition, those at full hit points gain 5
additional temporary hit points per round. These temporary hit
points fade 1420 rounds after the creature leaves the major posi-
tive-dominant plane. However, a creature must make a DC 20 For-
titude save each round that its temporary hit points exceed its
normal hit point total. Failing the saving throw results in.the.crea-
ture exploding in a riot of energy, killing it

The positive energy protection spell prevents its target from receiving |
the fast healing extraordinary ability, risking blindness, or receiving ,
the temporary hit points while on a positive-dominant plane.

Negative-Dominant: Planes with this trait are vast, empty
reaches that suck the life out of travelers who cross them. They
tend to be lonely, haunted planes, drained of color and filled with
winds bearing the soft moans.of those who died within them. As
with positive-dominant planes, negative-dominant planes can be
either minor or major. On minor negative-dominant planes,
living creatures take 1d6 points of damage per round, Ar 0 hit
points or lower, they crumble into ash.

Major negative-dominant planes are even more severe. Each

jround, those within must. make a DC 25 Fortitude save or gain a
negative level. A creature whose negative levels equal its current
levels or Hit Dice is slain, becoming a wraith.

The death ward spell protects a traveler from the damage and
energy drain of a negative-dominant plane.

Alignment Traits
In the D&D cosmology, each of the Outer Planes has predisposi-
tion toa certain alignment. Most of the inhabitants of these planes
also have the plane’s particular alignment, even powerful creatures
such as deities, In addition, creatures of alignments contrary tothe
\plane havea rougher time dealing with its natives and situations.
The alignment trait of a plane affects social interactions there.
Characters whe follow other alignments than most of the inhabi-
tants do may find life more difficult.
Alignmentraits haye multiple components. First are the moral
(good or evil) and ethical (lawful or chaotic) components; a plane,

can have eithera moral component, an ethical component, orone|
of each. Second, the specific alignment trait indicates whether,
each moral or ethical component is mildly or strongly evident. |

Good-Aligned/Evil-Aligned: These planes have chosen aside!
in the battle of good versus evil. No plane can be both good-

jaligned and evil-aligned__

Law-Aligned/Chaos-Aligned: Law versus chaos is the key
struggle for these planes and their residents. No plane can be both
law-aligned and chaos-aligned. |

Each part of the moral/ethical alignment trait has a. descriptor,
either “mildly” or “strongly,” to show how powerful the influence
of alignment is onthe plane. A plane could be mildly good-aligned
and strongly chaos-aligned, for example.

Mildly Aligned: Creatures who have an alignment opposite,
that of amildly aligned plane take a —2 circumstance penalty on all,
Charisma-based checks, Evil characters on a mildly good-aligned

iplane, for example, have a hard time getting along with the natives.

[Strongly Aligned: On planes that are strongly aligned, a~2 cir-

\cumstance penalty applies on all Charisma-based checks made by,
Tall creatures not of the plane's alignment—in other words, neutral
characters take the penalty too. In addition, the -2 penalty affects ;
all Intelligence-based and Wisdom-based checks, too: Ir’ as if the,
plane itself was standing in your way,

A strongly good-aligned, strongly law-aligned plane would
apply the -2 penalty to all creatures with a neutral aspect in their
alignment (as well as to evil or chaotic creatures),

The penalties for the moral and ethical components of the!
jalignment traitdo stack. A neutral evil character ona mildly good-}
aligned, strongly chaos-aligned plane would take a—2 penalty on
Charisma-based checks for being evil on a mildly good plane, and,
another -2 penalty.on Intelligence-, Wisdom-, and Charisma
based checks for being neutral on a strongly chaos-iligned plane.
Such a character would have a —$ circumstance penalty on,
Charisma-based checks and a_-2 circumstance penalty on Intelli-

gence- and Wisdom-based checks.

Neutral-Aligned: A mildly neutral-aligned plane does not
apply a circumstance penalty to anyone. Such a plane could be-
come a gathering point where those of different alignments could
meet, or the prize thar extraplanar forces fight over. In the D&D
cosmology, the Outer Plane known as the Ourlands is an example
of a mildly neutral-aligned plane.

‘The Material Plane in the D&D cosmology is considered mildly
neutral-aligned, though it may contain high concentrations of evil or
good, law or chaas in places. This fact often makes the Material Plane
a battleground for the various aligned planes and their natives, who
may try.to. change the alignment trait of the Material Plane itself

 

 

Magic Traits

A plane's magic trait describes how magic works on the plane com-
pared to how it works on the Material Plane. Particular locations
on a plane (such as those under the direct control of deities) may.
be pockets where a.different magic trait applies.

Normal Magic: This magic trait means that all spells and
supernatural abilities function as written. Unless otherwise noted
ina description, every plane in the D&D cosmology has the
normal magic trait

‘Wild Magic: On.a plane with the wild magic trait. such as,
Limbo in the D&D cosmology, spells and spell-like abilities func-
tion in radically different and sometimes dangerous ways. Any |
spell or spell-like ability used on a wild magic plane has.a.chance,
to go. awry, The.caster must make a level check (DC 15 +.the level
of the spell or effect) for the magic to function normally. For spell-|
like abilities, use the level or HD of the creature employing the,

ability for the caster level check and the level of the spell-like abil-
ity.to.set the DC for the caster level check.

Failure on this check means that something strange happens;
coll d% and consul the following table.

 
