either side of it but separate from the other Outer Planes. The
exception is the Concordant Domain of the Outlands, which is
coterminous to every other Outer Plane and thus serves as. a cen-
tral hub for dealings between outsiders,

The Outer Planes are.coexistent with the Astral Plane, They are,
separate from the Ethereal Plane and the Plane of Shadow, so.cer-,
tain spells (ethereal jaunt, for example) arent available to a caster.on}

ithe Ourer Planes, Each Quter Planes is made up of related layers |
(see Layered Planes, below), and the most common access to.an}.
Outer Plane is through the top layer of each plane. The good-)
aligned planes, also called the celestial planes or the upper planes,
are linked by the path of the River Oceanus, The evil-aligned
|planes, also called the infernal planes or the lower planes, are
linked by the path of the River Styx.

A large number of finite demiplanes connect all over the place.
Individual conduits, freestanding portals, and vortices are also
common.

Layered Planes }

\infinities may be broken into smaller infinities, and planes into
smaller, related planes, These layers are effectively separate planes
of existence, and each layer can have its own planar traits. Layers
are connected to each other through a variety of planar gates, nat-
ural vortices, paths, and shifting borders.

‘Access to a layered plane from elsewhere usually happens on a
specific layer. the first layer of the plane, which can be either the
‘top layer or the bottom layer, depending on the specific plane.
| Most fixed access points (such as portals and natural vortices)
reach this layer, which makes it the gateway for other layers of the
plane. The plane shift spell also deposits the spellcaster on the first
layer of the plane,

All layers of a plane are connected to the Astral Plane, so travel-
ers can reach specific layers directly through spells such as astral
\ projection, Often the first layer is the one most hospitable ro planar
travelers,

Random Planar Destinations
Spells such as prismatic spray and banishment may send an individ-_
ual to a random plane. To determine where a character winds up, |
roll on Table 5-7: Random Planar Destinations.

Taste 5-7: RANDOM PLANAR DESTINATIONS

d% Plane
01-05 Heroic Domains of Ysgard
06-10 _Ever-Changing Chags.of Limbo
11-15 Windswept Depths of Pandemonium
16-20___ Infinite Layers of the Abyss.
21-25 Tarterian Depths of Carceri
| 26-30 _ Gray Waste of Hades
, 31-35 Bleak Eternity of Gehenna
36-40 _ Nine Hells of Baator
41-45 Infernal Battlefield of Acheron,
46-50 Clockwork Nirvana of Mechanus
51-55 Peaceable Kingdoms of Arcadia
56-60 Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia
61-65 Twin Paradises of Bytopia
66-70 Blessed Fields of Elysium.
7I-7S Wilderness of the Beastlands
76-80 Olympian Glades of Arborea
81-89 —_ Concordant Domain of the Outlands
90-91__ Elemental Plane of Fire
| 92-93 Elemental Plane of Earth
94-95 __ Elemental Plane of Air
96-97 Elemental Plane of Water

98___ Positive Energy Plane
99 _ Negative Energy Plane
100. Demiplane of your choice

The table assumes that the character's plane of origin is either,
the Material Plane, the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane, or the}
Plane of Shadow, If the character's plane of origin is instead onc.of |
the planes mentioned.on Table $-7, then substitute the Material,

,Plane for the plane of origin’s line on the table. For example, break-
Ling a staff of power.(page 245).on the Elemental Plane of Fire sends
ithe wielder to the Material Plane if a 91 is rolled.

The layer and exact location of an individual's arrival.on the par-
ticular plane is up to. you. Transportation to a random plane. does.

not guarantee survival there, and individuals who risk such effects ,
should be aware of the dangers.

The planes that make up the Great Wheel are briefly described |
below.
Each of the Transitive Planes and Inner Planes has its own
jrandom encounter table, The Outer Planes share four random
encounter tables; use the appropriate one as directed in the plane's
[description. All the encounter tables in this section are intention-
ally general; if youre designing a site-based adventure on another;
plane, use the appropriate table as a starting point for your own,
encounters.

THE ETHEREAL PLANE

The Ethereal Plane is a misty, fog-bound dimension that is coexis-

tent with the Material Plane and often other planes.as well. Travel- |
ers within the Ethereal Plane describe the plane as.a.collection.of |
swirling mists and colorful fogs. The Material Plane itself is visible}
from the Ethereal Plane, but it appears muted and indistinct, its,
colors blurring into.each other and its edges turning fuzzy. Ethe-|
real denizens watch the Material Plane as though viewing it)
through distorted and frosted glass. —}

While it is possible to see into the Material Plane from the
Ethereal Plane, the Ethereal Plane is usually invisible to. those.on
the Material Plane. Normally, creatures on the Ethereal Plane
cannot attack creatures on the Material Plane, and vice versa. A
traveler on the Ethereal Plane is invisible, incorporeal, and
utterly silent to someone.on_the Material Plane. This makes the
Ethereal Plane very useful for reconnaissance, spying on oppo-
nents, and other occasions when it’s handy to moye around with-
out being detected.

The Ethereal Plane is mostly empty_of structures and impedi-
ments, However, the plane has its own inhabitants. Some of these
are other ethereal travelers, but the ghosts found here pose a par-
ticular peril to those who walk the fog,

It has the following traits.
No gravity.
Alterable morphic. The plane contains little to alter, however.
Mildly neutral-aligned.
Normal magic. Spells function normally on the Ethereal Plane,
though they do not cross into the Material Plane. It is possible
foracaster onthe Ethereal Plane to.use a fireball spell against an
enemy onthe Ethereal Plane, but the same fireball wouldnt
affect anyone on the corresponding part of the Material Plane,
A bystander on the Material Plane can walk through an ethereal
battlefield without feeling more than the hair on the back of his |
neck standing up. 4
The only exceptions are spells and spell-like abilities that have.the |
force. descriptor, such as magic missile and wall of force, and abjura-
tion spells that affect ethereal beings. Spellcasters on the Material
Plane must have some way.to detect foes on the Ethereal Plane}
before targeting them with force-based spells, of course, While it's}
\possible to hit ethereal enemies with 2 magic missile spell cast on
‘the Material Plane, the reverse isnt possible. No magical attacks
cross from. the Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane, including
force attacks.

 
