 

Example Ethereal Site: Misty Cemetery
Misty Cemetery (so named because the coastal fog at this location
on the Material Plane often obscures the tombstones) is home to
the ghosts of warlords from long-forgotten crusades, The ghosts

menace wayward travelers and tomb robbers, but they are other-)
wise content to spend their time on the Ethereal Plane, biding |

their time until they can pass.on to their final reward.
The ghosts rarely confront mourners or other cemetery visitors |
{by daylight—but anyone who visits the cemetery at night, defaces |

,the crypts and tombs, or enters the Ethereal Plane invites their,
| wrath. Their ringleaders are Durek of the Scar (Ftr 12), Colonel!

}Harakh (Ftr s/Clr 9), and the Eyeless One (Sor 16), but the ceme-
tery. is a vast, sprawling place, and the more powerful ghosts cant
be everywhere.

To draw a map of the Misty Cemetery, scatter small crypts
across the landscape by drawing 10-foot-by-20-foot buildings with
masonry walls and locked (Open Lock DC 30) iron doors. Place a

,tombstone in rows of adjacent squares (a tombstone functions as

ithe slender pillar described on page 64, providing a +2 bonus.to),
JArmor Class and a+1 bonus on Reflex saves). Occasionally pick.

two adjacent squares to represent an open grave (which functions
as a trench, described on page 91). When faced with intruders on
the Ethereal Plane, the ghosts will lurk within the crypts, trying to
surprise the PCs by striking through the walls of the crypts.

ETHEREAL PLANE ENcounrTers (EL 9)

14% Encounter Average EL
| 01-80 Roll om relevant Material Plane table* ~
| 81-82. 1 devourer n
(ikea: 1 couatt 10
| 84-86 TI night hag and 1 nightmare 10
87 10th-level drow wizard NPC 10
|88-90  1d4 xills 9
| 91-93 143 ghosts, Sth-level human fighters 9
94-96 ___1d6+5 blink dogs 8
97 1d4+2 jann 3
98-99 __1d4 phase spiders 3
100 1 succubus (demon) 7

* The encounter is with a creature or creatures on the Material Plane |

that the PCs can see; generate an appropriate dungeon or
wilderness encounter,

PLANE OF SHADOW

The Plane of Shadow is.a dimly lit dimension that is both coter-
minous to and coexistent with the Material Plane, It overlaps the
Material Plane much as the Ethereal Plane does, so a planar trav-
eler can use the Plane of Shadow to cover great distances quickly.
The Plane of Shadow is also coterminous to.other planes, With
ithe right spell, a character can use the Plane of Shadow to visit
sother realities.

The Plane of Shadow is a world of black and white; color itself
has been bleached from the environment. It is otherwise appears
similar to the Material Plane,

The sky on the Plane of Shadow. is a black vault with neither sun
nor stars. Landmarks from the Material Plane are recognizable on
the Plane of Shadow, but they are twisted, warped things—dimin-
ished reflections of what can be found on the Material Plane.
Despite the lack of light sources, various plants, animals, and
humanoids call the Plane of Shadow home.

The Plane of Shadow is magically morphic, and parts continu-
sally flow onto other planes. As a result, creating a precise map of
\the plane is next.to impossible, despite the presence of landmarks.
jIfa traveler visits a mountain range during one use of a shadow
jwwalk spell, the mountain range may still be there the next time,

but the individual mountains may have moved about. Precision is
a lost. cause on the Plane of Shadow.
The Plane of Shadow has the following traits.

*_Magically morphic. Spells such as shadow conjunation and shadow,

evocation.modify the base material of the Plane of Shadow. The;

utility and power of these spells within the Plane of Shadow!
make them particularly useful for explorers and natives alike.

Mildly neutral-aligned,

|s Enhanced magic. Spells with the shadow descriptor are en-

+ hanced on the Plane of Shadow. Such spells are cast as though
they were prepared with the Maximize Spell feat. though they
dont require the higher spell slots.

Furthermore, specific spells become more powerful on.the Plane

of Shadow, Shadow conjuration and shadow evocation spells are 30%,

as powerful as the conjurations and evocations they mimic (as.

opposed to 20%), Greater shadow conjuration and greater shadow evo-
cation are. 20%.as powerful (not 60%), and a shades spell conjures.at,

90% of the power of the original (not 80%),

+ Impeded magic. Spells that use or generate light or fire may_
fizzle when cast on the Plane of Shadow. A spellcaster attempt-
ing a spell with the light or fire descriptor must succeed on a
Spelleraft check (DC 20 + the level of the spell). Spells that,
produce light are less effective in general, because all light
sources have their ranges halved on the Plane of Shadow,

Despite the dark nature of the Plane of Shadow, spells that pro-

duce, use, or manipulate darkness are unaffected by the plane.

Example Shadow Site: Dark City
When the characters enter the Plane of Shadow where it coex-
ists with a Material Plane city, they find themselves in a dark,,
largely abandoned version of that town, The parallels are not)
exact, so the PCs’ favorite inn may be on a different street, be|
built in a different style, or lie in ruins.

Differences between a Material Plane city and its Plane of
Shadow counterpart can be quite significant, such as.a huge dark)
castle where none exists on the Material Plane, or an ancient,
battlefield where the city green should be. Most troubling of all.
are the shadowy echoes of people the traveler knows, shadow crea-
tures with the twisted bur still recognizable fearures of loved ones.
These shadow duplicates do not speak and have no special abili-
ties, but the effect is disconcerting nonetheless,

Shadow travelers in a place particularly familiar or meaningful
to them must succeed on.a DC 15 Will save to ignore such dark
mirages. Those who fail are haunted and rattled by the similarities,
taking a-2 morale penalty.on attack rolls and saving throws as
long as they remain in a location familiar to them. Travelers who
make their saves are unaffected by the dark mirages for the dura-
tion of their trip to the Plane of Shadow.

Noteverything in a dark city is a mirage. Undead shadows glide
through the streets looking for anyone who doesnt belong amid
the gloom, and bodaks that have found their way onto the Plane of
Shadow stalk living travelers

To.draw a map for encounters in.a dark city, start by drawing a
normal cityscape (as described in the Urban Adventures section,
page 98), Then reduce roughly one-quarter of the buildings to
rubble (treat.as large piles of stone and heavy debris strewn about).
Another one-quarter of the buildings have some structural dam-
age, such as gaping holes in the walls and collapsed roof timbers,
Finally, move a few buildings into locations that don't correspond
with their Material Plane counterparts, and add and subrract.a few.
streets and alleys,

PLANE oF SHADOW ENcounTers (EL 11)

4% Encounter Average EL_|
01-10 1 nightwing (nightshade) 4
11-20___L ich, 11th: level human wizard B
2-40 1d442 spectres nN
41-60 J dread wraith uv

| 61-80 143 greater shadows 10
81-100 __146+3 shadow mastiffs 10
