But the PCs aren't alone in the serene haze of the Astral

Plane. Githyanki pirates cruise the color pools, looking for
well-heeled travelers from other planes. A typical githyanki
pirate ship is a longship (described on page 132 of the Player's

Handbook) that flies under its own power at a speed of 90 feet.
The pirate captain (githyanki Frr11 or Ftr6/Rogs) leads his.
icrew into battle, with a.war-wizard (githyanki Wiz9) or merce-)
\nary cleric (tiefling Clr9) providing support to the rank-and-;
[file pirates. (Githyanki are never clerics themselves, so they}

must hire mercenary clerics because natural healing doesn't)
work on the Astral Plane.)

The githyanki use the enhanced magic of the Astral Plane to
good effect, taking full attacks, then using their dimension door
spell-like ability as a free action to confound their enemies.

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF AIR
{The Elemental Plane of Air is an empty plane, consisting of sky

jabove and sky below. Clouds billow up in bank after bank,|
(swelling into grand thunderheads and dissipating into wisps like}
\cotton candy, The wind pulls and tugs around travelers, and rain-;

bows glimmer in the distance.

‘The Elemental Plane of Air is the most comfortable and surviv-
able of the Inner Planes, and it is the home of all manner of air-
borne creatures. Indeed, flying creatures find themselves at a great
advantage on this plane. While travelers without flight can sur-
vive easily here, they are at a disadvantage.

The Elemental Plane of Air has the following traits.

+ Subjective directional gravity. Inhabitants of the plane deter-
|__mine their own “down direction. Objects not under the motive
force of others do not move.

Air-dominant.

Enhanced magic, Spells and spell-like abilities that use, ma-
nipulate, or create air (including spells of the Air domain) are
both empowered and enlarged (as if the Empower Spell and
Enlarge Spell metamagic feats had been used on them, bur the
spells dont require higher-level slots).

Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use or create

earth (including spells of the Earth domain and spells that,
summon earth elementals or outsiders with the earth subtype) |

are impeded.

Example Plane of Air Site: Claud Island

What appears to be.a white cumulus cloud is actually as solid as
earth, if somewhat difficult to move across (treat as.a shallow bog;
see page 88). Creatures with a fly speed can force themselves
through the.cloud island (effectively giving them a burrow speed
of 10 feet). Some 2d¢ pillars of fog 10 feet across drift across the
landscape (they provide concealment.as the obscuring mist spell,
imoving 10 feet in a random direction at initiative count 0). The
cloud island is about 1/2 mile wide and 1d10xS feet thick at any
given point.

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF Ain ENCounTeERs (EL 10)

4% Encounter Average EL
01-12 1442 noble djinn (genie) 12
21-32 1 elder air elemental n
33-47 1d3 elder arrowhawks: 10
48-62 1d4+2 belkers 10
63-74 1 greater air elemental 9
75-84 1d4+2 adult arrowhawks 3

, 85-92 1 invisible stalker 7
}-93-100 J_Huge. air elemental ___ 7

Floating in serene contemplation in the center of the cloud
island is anoble djinn (see page 115 of the Monster Manual). If char-

acters capture her (by defeating her without killing her or driving |
her away), she will grant three wishes collectively to the party, She is,

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF EARTH ENcounTERS (EL 10).

eager to talk t0.visitors from the Material Plane, where she spent,
more.than.a.century trapped by an evil wizard. If characters.can|
improve herattitude to friendly (it starts out indifferent), she'll offer |
the characters a bargain. She will grant three wishes to the party if,
|the characters will first avenge her imprisonment by capturing the
Jeyil Material Plane conjurer.and returning him to this cloud island,
,where the djinn will arrange for “long-term detention.”

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF EARTH

The Elemental Plane of Earth is a solid place made of rock, soil,|
jand stone. An unwary_and unprepared traveler may_find himself)
entombed within this vast solidity of marerial and have his life
crushed into nothingness, his powdered remains a warning to any.
foolish enough to follow.

Despite its solid, unyielding nature, the Elemental Plane of,
Earth is varied in its consistency, ranging from relatively. soft soil
\10 veins of heavier and more valuable metal. Striations of granite,
{volcanic rock, and marble interweave with brittle crystal and soft, ,
\crumbling chalks and sandstones. Thin veins of gemstones, rough .

Tand huge, can be found within the plane, and these unpolished

jewels often lead the greedy to this plane in the hope of picking ,
them up with minimal effort. Such prospectors.often meet their.
match in the natives of the Elemental. Plane of Earth, who feel
extremely attached (sometimes literally) to.parts of their home.
The Elemental Plane of Earth has the following traits.
Earth-dominant,

Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that_use, ma-j
nipulate, or create earth or stone (including those of the Earth |
domain) are both empowered and extended (as if the
Empower Spell_and Extend Spell metamagic_feats had been
used on them, but the spells don't require higher-level slots).
Spells and spell-like abilities that are already empowered or
extended are unaffected by this benefit.

Impeded magic. Spells and spel-ike abilities that use.or create |
air (including spells of the Air domain and spells that summon.
air elementals or outsiders with the air subtype) are impeded.

Example Plane of Earth Site: Great Dismal Delve

Essentially a dungeon the.size of a continent, the Great Dismal
Delve is a maddening mazeof passages that are intentionally be-
wildering to the traveler. A variety of powerful genie lords and
their slave races live here in dark splendor, eagerly mining gems
for trade. Slaves, often the losers in bets and bargains with the
rulers of the Great Dismal Delve, build and rebuild passages, fend
off elemental attacks, and are otherwise slowly worked to death by
their uncaring masters.

Glowing crystals line the Great Dismal Delve, and great vaults
are set with them in star patterns unlike any seen on the Material
Plane. The Great Dismal Delve spans a number of large, natural
caverns that are tectonically unstable. Earthquakes (with an effect
as the spell; see page 225 of the. Player's Handbook) are frequent
occurrences, which keeps the slaves busy doing repair work.

The.connections and passages of the Great Dismal Delve
link up with a complicated array of portals leading to other
Inner Planes, the subterranean reaches of some of the Outer
Planes, and the deepest dungeons of the Material Plane. It is
rumored that somewhere within the Great Dismal Delye isa)
freestanding portal to almost every secret location within the}
D&D cosmology.

4% Encounter Average EL
01-25 Velder earth elemental n
26-50 1d4+2. average xorns 10

, 75 1d3 elder xorns 10

+ 26-90 1 greater.earth elemental 9
91-100 1 Huge earth elemental 7

 
