 

A map of the Great Dismal Delve looks like any dungeon, only
it stretches far beyond what's available on the Material Plane. The
Great Dismal Delve is a mix of natural caverns and finely worked
passageways. Doors, corridors, and rooms are as likely to be
trapped as they are in the deadliest dungeon, and almost any mon-,
ster can be found either lurking in its lair or stalking the PCs)
through the hallways. J

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF FIRE j
Everything is alight on the Elemental Plane of Fire. The ground is,
nothing more than great, evershifting plates of compressed flame.

The air ripples with the heat of continual firestorms, and the

most common liquid is magma, not water. The oceans are

made of liquid flame, and the mountains ooze

with molten lava, The plane is a crema-

torium for the unprepared trayeler
jand an. uncomfortable spot even for
pthe dedicated adventurer.

| Fire survives here without
ineed for fuel or air, but flame
mables brought onto the
plane are consumed readily.

The elemental fires seem

to feed on each other to

produce a continually
burning landscape.

\_The Elemental Plane
Lof Fire has the following

Limaits,

| Fire-dominant.

+ Enhanced magic.
Spells and_ spell-
like abilities with the
fire descriptor are both
maximized and enlarged
(as if the Maximize Spell
and Enlarge Spell had been
used on them, but the spells
dont require higher-level slots) wa
Spells and spell-like abilities
that are already maxi- =7
mized or enlarged are un-
affected by this benefit.

Impeded_magic. Spells _and_spell-like
abilities that.use or create water (includ-
ing spells of the Water domain and spells
that summon water elementals or outsiders

with the water subtype) are impeded.

 

Elemental Plane of Fire

 

Example Plane of Fire Site: City of Brass

|The City of Brass is populated by powerful efreet and is considered
by many efreet to be their home and their capital. Efreet may be
found elsewhere onthe Elemental Plane of Fire, but even far-
flung settlements owe fealty and allegiance to the grand sultan
who rules the City of Brass from his burning palace. The grand
sultan is said to be an efreeti of singular power and prowess, and is
advised by all manner of elemental nobles. His direct servants,
both in the city and on the Material Plane, are six lords of consid-
erable power,

The city is cradled in.a brass hemisphere 40 miles across, float-
ing above a plate of cracked obsidian at the heart of the Elemental
}Plane of Fire. Stairs of burning basalt and rivers of flame stream
Lup from the surface below to the well-armed gates of the city. The
Lcity walls may be breached by flying creatures, bur the efreet take
adim view of interlopers who refuse to present themselves atone
of the city's gates,

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
      

  

The. City. of Brass is the best known location on the Elemental
Plane.of Fire and is also the most likely to be visited by travelers
from.the Material Plane. The air is slightly cooler here; it deals no.
damage (unlike everywhere else on this fire-dominant plane), but

it is still stiflingly hot. That doesn't mean the City of Brass is par-
{ticularly hospitable. Every brass wall glows with hear, and casual
contact with the walls deals 1d6 points of fire damage per round.

Even the iron cobblestones glow with heat, dealing 1 point of
fire damage per round. Without the aid of magic, visitors soon.
writhe and burn in the streets.

The City of Brass has the mildly evil-aligned trait. Good-aligned
creatures within the City of Brass take a -2 penalty on all Cha-
risma-based checks. This alignment trait is due in part to the

nature of the efreet within the walls, bur the city also has.a,
number of freestanding portals leading to the Nine Hells of |
Baator. Devils are common within the
walls of the City of Brass, either
performing missions for
their infernal masters or,
bringing tribute and gifts
to the grand. sultan's
court.

To_make an_en-
counter map for the
City of Brass, use the

guidelines in the Ur-
ban Adventures section |
(page.98), bur the build-)
ings are half again as tall)
as they would be in a
Marerial Plane.city,)
and most have a
plethora of exterior
staircases, ledges,

and balconies. In-
clude _some_pools of
magma, which deals 2d6
points of fire damage to
characters who wade
through it and 20d6
points of fire damage
to creatures who are
fully immersed. Some
pedestals and sconces
spout blasts of flame
every id¢ rounds
(dealing 5d6 points of
fire damage to everyone

within 20 feet at initiative

count 0; Reflex DC 14 half).

At the center of the city are its tallest rowers and greatest foun-
tains of flame, Here is the Burning Palace of the Grand Sultan of
All the Efreet, where he.rules from the Charcoal Throne. It is said
that within the great palace are wonders beyond belief and trea-
sure beyond counting, But here also is found death for any unin-
vited guest who seeks to wrest even a single coin or bauble from
the treasure rooms of the grand sultan.

 

 

 

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF Fine ENcounrTeRs (EL 10)

4% Encounter ‘Average EL.
01-15 14442 efreet (genie) 12
16-40.__1 elder fire elemental u
41-60 1d4+2 average salamanders 10
61-75 1 noble salamander 10

, 76-90 1 greater fire elemental 9
+-91=100 L Huge fire elemental 7
