ELEMENTAL PLANE OF WATER
The Elemental Plane of Water is a sea withouta floor ora surface,
an entirely fluid environment lit by a diffuse glow. Ir is one of the
more hospitable of the Inner Planes.once a traveler gets past the
problem of breathing the local medium.

The eternal oceans of this plane vary between ice cold and boil- |
ing hot, between saline and fresh, They are perpetually in motion.)

\wracked by currents and tides. The plane's permanent settlements

(form around bits of flotsam and jetsam suspended within this end-}
less liquid. These settlements drift.on the tides of the Elemental |

Plane of Water.

The Elemental Plane of Water has .the following traits.
Subjective directional gravity. The gravity here works similar to
that of the Elemental Plane of Air. But sinking or rising on the
Elemental Plane of Water is slower (and less dangerous) than on
the Elemental Plane of Air.

Water-dominant.

Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use or create

water are both extended and enlarged (as if the Extend Spell)
and Enlarge Spell metamagic feats had been used on them, but!

the spells donk require higher-level slots). Spells and spell-like
abilities that are already extended or enlarged are unaffected by
this benefit

Impeded magic, Spells and spelllike abilities with the fire
descriptor (including spells of the Fire domain) are impeded.

Example Water Site: Sargasso Doldrum
A spherical tangle of kelp and seaweed a mile across, the sargasso
doldrum is home to many dangerous predators that feed on the
herbivorous fish thar eat the seaweed,

Characters who explore the sargasso.doldrum find it tough
going. Even if they have a swim speed, it sakes 2 squares of move-
ment to struggle through each square in the web of kelp. Only
{those with a freedom of movement or pass without.trace spell.can move
normally through the area, Line of sight is limited 10.30 feet, and
creatures. more than 20 feet away have concealment.

The sargasso doldrum is infested with dire sharks, who attack in
great hunting schools without regard to their own safety, More.

sinister foes such as aboleths and black dragons study interlopers
as they fight the sharks, deciding how best to hunt them if they |

stay among the seaweed.

ELEMENTAL PLANE OF WaTeR Encounters (EL 10)

4% Encounter Average EL
01-20 1 elder water elemental n
21-45 143 elder tojanidas uu
46-65 1442 adult tojanidas 3
66-85___1 greater water elemental 9
86-100 1 Huge water elemental 7

A.tuined war galley sits.in the center of the sargasse doldrum.
The ship, protected by aneutral alignment, maximized forbiddance
spell, holds the treasure trove of a powerful water naga wizard. The
aboleths and black dragons dont know what's in the ship's hold;
they would just hire neutral creatures to extract the riches if they
found our what they could gain.

To draw an encounter map for the doldrums, include some ir-
regular clusters of adjacent squares roughly 15 feet across, These
squares, representing particularly dense clots of sargasso, function
as heavy undergrowth (see page 87)

NEGATIVE ENERGY PLANE
The Negative Energy Plane is a barren, empty place, a void with-
jout.end,.and.a place of empty, endless night. Worse, it is a needy,
greedy plane, sucking the life our of anything that is vulnerable.

Heat, fire, and life itself are all drawn into the maw of this plane,,

which always hungers for more

Toan observer, there's little to see on the Negative Energy!
Plane. tt is adark, empty place, an eternal pit where a traveler can |
fall.until the plane itself steals away all light and life. }

The Negative Energy Plane is the most hostile of the Inner,
Planes, and the most uncaring and intolerant of life. Only crea-

jtures immune to its life-draining energies can survive there.

‘The Negative Energy Plane has the following traits.

+ Subjective directional gravity.

+ Major negative-dominant. Some areas within the plane have
only the minor negative-dominant trait, and these islands tend |
to be inhabited.

+ Enhanced magic, Spells and spell-like abilities that use negative
energy are maximized (as if the Maximize Spell metamagic feat
had been.used on them, but the spells dont require higher-level.
slots),.Spells and spell-like abilities that are already maximized
are unaffected by this benefit. Class abilities that use negative
energy, such as rebuking and controlling undead, gain a +10
bonus on the roll ro determine Hit Dice affected.

\+_Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use positive,
energy, including cure spells, are impeded. Characters on this
plane take a -10 penalty on Fortitude saving throws made to.
remove negative levels bestowed by an energy.drain attack.
Random Encounters; Because the Negative Energy Plane is

virtually devoid of creatures, random encounters.on the plane are.

exceedingly rare.

Example Negative Plane Site; Voidstone Field
In some Jocations.on the Negative Energy Plane, the collapsing |
intensity of the plane is.so great that the negative energy. folds in|
on itself, stabilizing into solid chunks of utterly black matter.
These chunks of yoidstone might be the building blocks.of such |
items as the sphere of annihilation (page 279). Indeed, anything that
comes into contact with a voidstone is destroyed in seconds,

Unlike with a sphere of annihilation, a character touching a piece
of voidstone gets a DC 25 Fortitude save each round he or she
stays in contact with it. Natives of the Negative Energy Plane are
vulnerable to voidstones.

A chunk of voidstone cannot be controlled through mental
energy as a spheres of annihilation can be.

Voidstones may be of any size, ranging from inches across to
dozens of feet. To draw.them on an encounter map, put small dots
(representing very small voidstones roughly 1 foot in diameter) in
about 5% of the squares. Draw 3d6 voidstones that take up a whole
square each, and add 1d¢ very large voidstones that are 10 feet or
more in diameter.

‘The very small and very large voidstones are stationary, but the
square-sized yoidstones move. Each round at initiative count 0,
each square-sized voidstone moyes 1d3 squares toward the nearest
living creature.

Nightwalkers lurk among the voidstones, which act as an alarm.
system for them (the voidstones stay stationary because the night-
walkers are undead), PCs who fight the nightwalkers will also have
to contend with the inexorable approach of the voidstones, The
nightwalkers have learned to use the unusual terrain in other ways;
they'll use their heft to bull-rush foes into oblivion, for example.

POSITIVE ENERGY PLANE

‘The Positive Energy Plane is best compared to the heart ofastat.It|
is a continual furnace of creation, a domain of brilliance beyond |
the ability of mortal eyes to comprehend. Its very being wavers|
and ripples.as new matter and energy is born and swells to full!
power like a bursting fruit, It is a vibrant plane, so alive with itself)
that travelers themselves are empowered by visiting it.

The Positive Energy Plane has no surface.and is akin to the Ele-[
mental Plane of Air with its wide-open nature, However, every bit
Lof this plane glows brightly with innate power. This power is dan-
gerous to mortal forms, which are not made to handle it.

 
