 

Despite the beneficial effects of the plane, it is.oneof the most
hostile of the Inner Planes, An unprotected character on this
plane swells with power as positive energy. is force-fed into her
Then, her mortal frame unable to contain that power, she immo-
lates as if she were a small planet caught at the edge of a supernova...
Visits to the Positive Energy Plane are brief, and even then travel-

ers must be heavily protected. T

The Positive Energy Plane has the following traits.
+ Subjective directional gravity.
Major positive-dominant. Some.tegions of the plane have. the!
ainor positive-dominant trait instead, and those islands tend to |
be inhabited.
Enhanced magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use positive
energy, including cure spells, are maximized (as if the Maximize
Spell metamagic feat had been used on them, but the spells
dont require higher-level slots). Spells and spell-like abilities
that are already maximized are unaffected by this benefit.
Class abilities that use positive energy, such as turning and|
[destroying undead, gain a +10 bonus on the roll to determine Hit)
(Dice affected. (Undead are almost impossible to find on this plane,
however.)
+ Impeded magic. Spells and spell-like abilities that use negative

energy (including inflict spells) are impeded.

Random Encounters: Because the Positive Energy Plane is
virtually devoid of creatures, random encounters on the plane are
exceedingly rare.

Example Positive Plane Site: Burst Cluster
Even among the brilliant and deadly radiance of the Positive
Energy Plane, some regions are more intense and dangerous than
iothers. These regions erupt like miniature suns, suddenly. grant-
Ling those within the burst radius (usually 30 feet, but occasionally
,up to 120 feet) an additional 3d10 temporary hit points. The dan-
{gers of exceeding double one’s full normal hit points (as nored for

H

the positive-dominant trait) still apply.

In addition, those within an energy burst must: make.a DC 24
Fortitude save or be blinded for 1d10 rounds.

Rayids sometimes patrol the periphery of burst clusters, confi-.
dent thar their high speed will get them our of danger before a|
burst makes them explode, +

EROIC DOMAINS OF YSGARD

Ysgard is a plane on.an epic scale, with soaring mountains, deep
fjords, and dark caverns that hide the secret forges of the dwarves.
A biting wind always blows at a hero's back. From the freezing
water channels to the sacred groves of Alfheims elves, Ysgand’ ter-
rain is grand and terrible. Ir is a place of sharp seasons: Winter is a

,time of darkness and killing cold, anda summer day is scorching
[and clear

Most spectacular of all, the landscape floats atop immense rivers

lof earth flowing forever through an endless skyscape. The broadest

earthen rivers are the size of continents, while smaller sections,
called earthbergs, are island-sized. Fire rages under each river, but
only a reddish glow penetrates to the continent's top. Of more con-
cern is the occasional collision between rivers, which produces ter-
rible quakes and sometimes spawns new mountain ranges.

Ysgard is the home of slain heroes. who wage eternal battle on
fields of glory. When these warriors fall, they rise again the next
morning to continue eternal warfare,

The plane boasts two layers beneath the top Jayer,.also called

|Xsgard: the fiery caverns of Muspelheim and the underground

forests of Nidavellir.
Ysgard has the following traits.

+ Infinite size, Ysgard goes on forever, but its well-known realms.

have boundaries within the plane as a whole.
+ Divinely morphic. Specific powerful beings (such as the deities
Kord and Olidammara) can alter Ysgard with a thought. Ordinary!

creatures find Ysgard as easy to alter as the Material Plane is—|
they.can be affected by spells and physical effort normally. But}
deities can change vast areas, creating great realms for them-|
selves,

No elemental traits, No one element dominates on Ysgard; all

are in balance, as.on.the Material Plane. However, parts of the

4 second layer, Muspelheim, are treated as if they possessed the

fire-dominant trait.

Minor positive-dominanr. Ysgard possesses a riotous explosion ,

of life in all its forms, All individuals on a positive-dominant,

plane gain fast healing 2 and may even regrow lost limbs inj
time. Additionally, those slain in the never-ending conflicts on

Ysgard's fields of battle rise each morning as if true. resumection

had been cast on them, fully healed and ready to fight-anew.,
Only those who suffer mortal wounds on Ysgard’s bartlefields

get the true resurrection effect; dead characters brought to Ysgard

dont spontaneously revive.

Mildly chaos-aligned. Lawful creatures on Ysgard take a—2 pen-

alty on all Charisma-based checks.

Random Encounters: Use the Beatific Encounters table (page!

167) for random encounters on Ysgard.

Example Ysgard Site: Plain of Ida
This great field is located near the great free city of Himinborg,
the largest population center on Ysgard’s top layer, The Plain of Ida
hosts daily festivals where warriors can flaunt their mettle. Here,
bravery and skill in battle is valued over all else. Its also a bartle-|
field where rival armies clash by day only.to revel in Himinborg's;
taverns by night.

Characters who wind up on the Plain of Ida areas likely to be)
thrust into the maelstrom of a battle as they are to explore the.car-|
nival atmosphere of a “festival of steel.”

‘To draw a map fora mass battle, use the battlefield guidelines in|
the Plains Terrain section (see page 91), The combatants on the
Plain are generally mercenary companies that wander the Planes.
Because soldiers rise the next morning, the Plain of Ida is a.useful
tool for units that want to hone their mass-battle skills.

Almost any kind of creature can be found on the battlefield. A
phalanx of dwarves might stand resolute against an assault by half-
celestial giants. A horde of slaadi might overrun githyanki merce-
naries, only to be routed by dragon-mounted githyanki reinforce-
ments. If the characters find themselves in the middle of a bartle,
they'll have to. combine diplomacy with combat prowess to avoid
being crushed by both sides.

Major battles happen only one day in three, on average. Festi-
vals are common on the other days, featuring a variety of
sideshows, midway booths, and merchants surrounding the main
event, which is always a test of martial prowess, Sword duels,
jousts on exotic steeds, wrestling matches, archery tourneys, and
even grand tugs-of-war are common on the Plain of Ida, with
many spectators and participants traveling from Himinborg. The
prizes are often substantial, but the competition is fierce. The fes-
rivals attract fairgoers from across the Great Wheel, so they always
offer diversions and intrigues for the less athletically minded.

With a guaranteed true resurrection if they fall, many characters
will find battles on the Plain of Ida too tempting to pass up, Defeat
still has its price, however, because victorious armies often loot
the bodies of the fallen. Some characters might lose but not tech:
nically die (being turned to stone, banished from the plane,
entirely, or taken prisoner).

EVER-CHANGING CHAOS OF LIMBO
Limbo is a plane of pure chaos, Untended sections appear asa roil-.
.ing soup of the four basic elements and all their combinations,
{Balls of fire, pockets of air, chunks of earth, and waves of water
jbattle for ascendancy until they in turn are overcome by yet
another chaotic surge. Landscapes similar to ones found on the
