Material Plane drift through the miasma: bits of forest, meadow,
ruined castles, and small islands. Despite the plane's inhospitable
environment, the slaadi and the githzerai call Limbo home.

Limbo has no layers. Or, if it does, the layers continually merge
and part, each is as chaotic as the next, and even the wisest sages!
would be hard-pressed to distinguish one from another. }

Limbo has the following traits. +
\+_ Subjective directional gravity. 4
Highly morphic. Limbo is continually changing, and keeping a,
particular area stable is difficult. A given area, unless magically)
stabilized somehow, can react_to. specific spells or sentient
thought. Left alone, it continually changes. For more informa-
tion, see Raw Limbo under Limbo Terrain, below.
Sporadic element-dominant..No one element constantly dom-
inates Limbo. Each element (air, earth, fire, and water) is dom-
inant from time to time, so any given area is a chaotic, dangerous
boil. The elemental dominance can change without warning.
,*_Strongly. chaos-aligned. This trait does not apply within the}
| —.walls of githzerai_ monasteries (bur it does apply in githzerai)
cities),
Wild magic. Spells and spell-like abilities function normally
within permanent structures or on permanently stabilized
landscapes in Limbo, However, any spell or spell-like ability
used in an untended area of Limbo, or an area temporarily
controlled, has a chance to go awry. The spellcaster must make
a level check (1d20 + spellcaster level) against a DC of 20 + the
_ level of the attempted spell. If the caster fails the check, roll on
| the table on page 150 to determine the exact effect.
Random Encounters: Alternate between the Bearific Encoun-
Uters table and the Abyssal Encounters table (page 167) for random.
jencounters in Limbo.

Limbo Terrain
There are two kinds of terrain in Limbo. The vast majority of the
plane is.uncontrolled, raw Limbo, but here and there are islands
of more stable terrain—usually earth, but sometimes another
material.

Raw Limbo: To draw an encounter map of raw Limbo, scatter,
irregular areas of fire, water, earth, and high winds across the grid. |
As a rough guide, make each area roughly 40 feet square and puta,
15-foot gap between areas, But because this is the plane of ultimate,
chaos, you should vary widely from this guideline,

Roughly one-quarter of the areas are fire-dominant (dealing
3d10 points of damage per round and setting characters on fire),
one-quarter are svater-dominant (essentially free-floating blobs of
water), one quarter are air-dominant tornadoes (as described on
page 94), and one-quarter are simply earth.

Eyery.round, at initiative count 0, the areas of raw Limbo shift.
{For each area, roll 148. This determines the direction that a partic-
hular area will shift, with 1 being back toward the top of the map
\and 2 through 8 counting clockwise in 45-degree increments.

Then, shift the entire area 1d4 squares in that direction.

If fire-dominant and water-dominant areas overlap after the
shift, they cancel.each other out within the area of the overlap,
changing the shape of both areas and leaving the area of the overlap
outside both areas. The same thing happens if an air-dominant and
earth-dominant area overlap. Other overlaps (fire and earth, for
example) have the full effects of both elements in the overlap area.

Stable Areas: Most of Limbo’s living inhabitants remain in
the stable areas free of the plane's shifting elements, Often these
stable areas are.chunks of earth and stone up toa half-mile across.
\Occasionally a lake of stable water, ora massive, roiling firestorm.
{will appear.

Example Limbo Site: Monastery of Zerth’Ad'lun
One of many githzerai monasteries on the plane, Zerth’Ad'lun fol-
lows the teaching of Sensei Belthomias, a 16th-level monk.|

Belthomias.teaches a specialized martial art (as do many monas-,
teries), and those students who fully embrace his teachings are|
also called Zerth cenobites. Those who practice zerthi—*Zerthis |
teaching” in. the githzerai tongue—claim to peer a moment.into|
the future in order to aid their martial expertise.

From the exterior, the monastery appears almost like a small
glade of stone spires and towers layered around a sphere about a
quarter-mile in diameter. Taking full advantage of the subjective
gravity of Limbo, the interior of the monastery. has winding stairs.
that connect “floors” to “walls” or “ceilings,” All the surfaces are
really floors for those who dont mind adjusting their own subjec-|
tive orientation.

Vast halls provide room for mass martial arts training, while
hundreds of tiny cells lighted by dim candles provide privacy for}
individual meditations. The schedule of a monk at Zerth'Adlun is |
strict and harsh, but the rewards of the spirit are considered suffi-
cient compensation.

Mapping the monastery—even enough of it for an en-
jcounter—is difficult because the best frame of reference seems to.

ichange from square to square. Simply throw in as many dungeon

elements as you can, making sure to rotate some and turn others
upside down. If the characters fight the monks of the monastery,
haye the monks jump from ceiling to wall, using subjective gray-
ity to right themselves when they land.

The monastery welcomes visitors and may_put them up for as
Jong as.a week in quarters set aside for hospitality. Nongithzerai
who are interested in studying at the monastery_are allowed to do
so—Belthomias is impressed by any nongithzerai who can sur-}
vive Limbo long enough to find the monastery. The supplicant}
must be willing to spend a few months in the monastery learning ,
the basics and abiding the schedule of a cenobite. Then Beltho-}
mias poses a series of three tests, one of which involves fighting |
slaadi, one of which involves controlling Limbo, and one of which |
involves a quest to the Material Plane (often to the subterranean
homes of the mind flayers).

WINDSWEPT DEPTHS OF PANDEMONIUM

Pandemonium is a great mass of matter pierced by innumerable
tunnels carved by the howling winds of the plane. It is windy,
noisy, and dark, having no natural source of light. The wind quickly
extinguishes normal fires, and lights that last longer draw the
attention of wights driven insane by the constant howling wind.

Every word, scream, or shout is caught by the wind and flung
through all the layers of the plane. Conversation is accomplished
by shouting, and even then words are spirited away by the wind
before they travel farther than 10 feet

The stale wind of Pandemonium is cold, and it steals heat from
unprotected travelers. The endless gale buffets each inhabitant,
blowing sand and dirt into eyes, snuffing torches, and carrying
away loose items. In some places, the wind howls so fiercely that it
lifts creatures off their feet and carries them for miles before dash-
ing their forms against some dark cliff face.

Ina few relatively shelrered places, the wind dies down to just a
breeze carrying haunting echoes from distant parts of the plane,
though these sounds are so distorted that they sound like cries
of torment

Pandemonium has four layers: Pandesmos, Cocytus, Phlege-|
thon, and Agathion, Pandesmos, the highest layer, has large cav-|
erns and passageways, with Cocytus and Phlegethon having pro-|
gressively smaller and more rugged caverns. Agathion has only |

isolated caverns, with no tunnels linking them. aie

Pandemonium has the following traits.
* Objective directional gravity. In the cavernous tunnels of)

Pandemonium, gravity is oriented towand whatever wall a crea-

ture.is nearest. Thus, there is no normal concept of floor, wall and

ceiling—any surface is a floor if you're near enough to it. Rare
narrow.tunnels exactly cancel out gravity, allowing a traveler to

  

 
