Random Abyssal Layers
Whar if your characters wind up being sent. to the Abyss as. a
result of an adventure gone wrong? Or what if they flee powerful
demons by jumping through the nearest portal?
Use the following table to randomly determine the general

characteristics of an.unknown layer. If desired, roll twice (or)

more) and combine the results.

a% Type of Layer
01-05 Airdominant
06-10 Blood War battleground (demons against devils)

nas Burning hellscape (mix of magma and stone)
16-20 Demonic city.

21-25 Desert of sand, ice, salt, or ash
26-30 Earth-dominant

31-35 Fire-dominant

36-40 Fetid swamp (filled with predators)
41-45 Mixed element-dominant (as Limbo)
46-50 Mountainous

51-55 Negative-dominant (minor or major)
56-60 Normal (as the Material Plane)
61-65 Ocean of water

66-70 Realm of powerful Abyssal entity
n-1s Sea of acid

76-80 Sea of insects

81-85, ‘Sea of blood

86-90 Subterranean

91-95 Undead realm

96-100 Water-dominant

Example Abyss Site: Demonweb Pits
(The 66th layer of the Abyss is home to Lolth, the Spider Queen.
(The plane folds in upon itself so thar it resembles a great web. A
dizzying array of web pathways interconnect with fractal com-
plexity, Each strand is strung with portals onto.the planes. where
Lolth is.worshiped. Lolth’s palace is said to be a mobile iron
stronghold shaped like a spider, perpetually crawling across her
planar web.

To draw an encounter map for the Demonweb Pits, design a,
crisscrossing network of 20-foot-wide walkways suspended magi-_

cally in vast cloud of solid fog (as the spell). The fog stays 1d4x10,

feet away from the pathways, so characters can sometimes glimpse
other parts of the web that are above, below, or to the side of the
path they're walking on.

The web nwists and turns in on itself, but it always appears per-
fectly level, even when it corkscrews upward or downward. Ir's
possible to.make four right turns and wind up underneath the

_point where you started, without encountering a slope or stairs.

Characters who fall—or are bull rushed—off a walkway fall at
jonly 60 feet per round (as the feather fall spell), and they take no
idamage when they land on another walkway (which might be
miles below where they.started).

TARTERIAN DEPTHS OF CARCERI
The prison plane of Carceri seems the least overtly dangerous of
the lower planes, bur thar first impression quickly disappears. Acid
seas and sulfurous atmospheres may be rare.on this plane, and no
areas of biting cold or infernos of raging heat exist, The danger of
Carceri is a subtler thing.

The plane is.a place of darkness and despair,.of passions and
(poisons, and of kingdom-shattering betrayals, On Carceri,
jhatreds run tike.a deep, slow-moving river. And there's no telling

what the flood of treachery is going ro consume next. It is said
{that.a.prisoner on Carceri may only escape when she has become
stronger than whatever imprisoned her there. That's a difficult

task ona plane whose very nature breeds despair, betrayal, and |

self-hatred.

Carceri consists of six layers: Orthrys, Cathrys, Minethys,
Colothys, Porphratys, and Agathys. Each layer consists of a series |
of orbs like tiny planets. A gulf of air separates each orb from the}
next. On a particular layer, little distinguishes one orb from the

inext, and it’s possible thar the number of orblike planets on each
jlayer is infinite.

Carceri has the following traits.

+ Normal gravity, On_the orbs, gravity is normal. Between orbs,
there is no gravity, which eases travel for those who can fly,
beyond the clutches of each orbs gravity.

Divinely morphic, Nerull and any other entity of lesser deity
status or greater can alter Carceri. More ordinary. creatures find.
Carceri indistinguishable from the Material Plane; it responds
to spells and physical effort normally. seal
Mildly evil-aligned.

Random Encounters: Use the Abyssal Encounters table (page
_167) for random encounters on Carceri.

Example Carceri Site: Sand Tombs of Payratheon

{Payratheon is the name of a vanished city built on an orb of
Minethys eons ago. Thar city is long buried under sand dunes,
but its sand-drowned avenues, crumbled towers, and silted porti-,
cos still remain far below the shifting surface of the layer. Some-
times the shifting sands reveal Payratheon for an hour or a
longer, but ir is always engulfed again by.the.sands, smothering
most. creatures that were tempted by its appearance.and entered
the sand-blasted city.

Resourceful adventurers have burrowed down to find outlying |
suburbs of the city during its phases of submersion Tales of terror,
walk hand in hand with these accounts, which tell of dragonlike|
“sand gorgons” that swim through the sand as if ir were water. Also]
mentioned are the remnants of former inhabitants that force their,
way through the streets as petrified undead, so weathered and!
eroded that little can be discerned of their original race.or size.

To create an encounter map for the sand tombs, start.with.acity,
then reduce half the buildings to heavy rubble and damage the
others in some significant way. The riches of Payratheon are there
for the taking, for the city was buried suddenly, But the characters
will have to contend with the sand gorgons (24 HD gorgons with
a burrow speed of 30 feet), mummy lords (see the Monster Manual),
and other undead eager.to slay and consume the living. And
they're also racing against time—a titanic sandstorm (see page 91)
is only 1d4 hours away.

GRAY WASTE OF HADES

Hades sits at the nadir of the lower planes, halfway berween two

races of fiends each bent on the other's annihilation. Thus, it often

sees its gray plains darkened by vast armies of demons battling
equally vast armies of devils who neither ask nor give quarter. If
any plane defines the nature.of true evil, it is the Gray Waste.

In the Gray Waste of Hades, pure undiluted evil acts as a power
ful spiritual force that drags all creatures down. Here, even the
consuming rage of the Abyss and the devious plotting of the Nine

Hells are subjugated to hopelessness. Apathy and despair seep into

everything ar the pole of evil. Hades slowly kills a visitor's dreams

and desires, leaving the withered husk of what used to be a fiery

sprit. Spend enough time in Hades, and a visitor gives up on|

things thar used to matter, eventually succumbing to total apathy.
Hades has three layers, called “glooms”: Oinos, Niflheim,and,

Pluton. Uncaring malevolence that slowly crushes the spirit per-|

-meates each gloom. = +

Hades has the following traits.

+ Divinely morphic. Entities of at least lesser deity.status can alter!
Hades, though few deities care to reign in Hades. The Gray
Waste has the alterable morphic trait for less powerful crea-
tures; Hades responds normally to spells and physical effort.

+ Strongly evil-aligned.

 
