 

+ Entrapping. This is a special trait unique to Hades (although
Elysium has a similar entrapping trait). A nonoutsider in Hades
experiences increasing apathy and despair while there. Colors
become grayer and_less vivid, sounds duller, and_even the
demeanor of companions seems_to be more hateful. Ar the,
conclusion_of every week spent in Hades, any. nonoutsider|
must succeed on a Will saving throw (DC 10 + the number of}

_consecutive weeks in Hades), Failure indicates that the individ-|
ual has fallen entirely under the control of the plane, becoming }

a petitioner of Hades,

Travelers entrapped by the inherent evil of Hades cannot leave |
ithe plane of their own volition and have no desire to do so. Mem-
Lories of any previous life fade into nothingness, and it takes a wish

or miracle spell to return such characters to normal.

Random Encounters; Alternate between the Abyssal Encoun-
ters table and the Hellish Encounters table (page 167) for random
sencounters in Hades.

i

Example Hades Site: Underworld
{On the gloom of Pluton, the Underworld is contained within ,
walls of gray marble that stretch for hundreds of miles and are vis-
ible for thousands of miles beyond that. Sometimes the souls of
creatures who have died particularly tragic deaths come here,
rather than traveling onward to their final reward.
Asingle double gate pierces the marble walls of the realm, Con-
structed of beaten bronze, the gates are dented and scarred by he-
.roes intent on getting past. However, the gates are also guarded by
jaserrible fiendish beast, 1 Gargantuan three-headed hound made
}from the squirming, decaying bodies of hundreds of dead spirits.
|___Beyond the gate, the inside of the realm appears much like the out-
jside. Blackened trees, stunted bushes, and wasted ground dominate
(the landscape. To draw an encounter map for the Underworld, use the
| guidelines for sparse forest (see page 87), but replace any undergrowth
with light rubble. Gray, wraithlike spirits wander through this realm,
onthe verge of being sucked completely dry of all emotion bythe spir-
itual decay of the plane. When they lose the last shred of emotion,
their remaining essence becomes one with the gloom of Pluton.
‘Sometimes, great heroes or desperate lovers from the Material,
Plane travel to this layer via a tributary of the River Styx or portals |
hidden in great volcanic fissures, They come to the Underworld |
because they believe that they can find the spirit of a friend or/
loved one and extricate that spirit from a hopeless eternity, The
hound cant be bargained with, but if the characters manage to get
inside, they'll have to negotiate with powerful ghosts and out-
siders to find the soul they're looking for. Whatever the characters
seek here, the Underworld is sure to exact a price.

BLEAK ETERNITY OF GEHENNA
4Gehenna’s top layer borders Hades and the Nine Hells, so it is not a
{pleasant place. Floating in an impenetrable, infinite void are volcanic
umounrains seemingly without base or peak. They are only finite in
the strictest sense of the word, measuring hundreds of thousands of
miles in each direction. A single volcanic mountain dominates each
of the four layers of Gehenna, though lesser volcanic earthbergs drift

and sometimes smash into.the greater mountains.

No naturally occurring level place exists in any of the layers, all
the slopes are at least 45 degrees, and many are akin.to sheer cliffs.
Gehenna’s fiendish inhabitants have carved artificial ledges, some
large enough for entire cities, and switchback paths to connect

ithem. But those edifices have a tendency to break apart, sending
itheir builders on along, sliding fall down the mountain,
|Gehenna’s four layers are Khalas, Chamada, Mungoth, and
{Krangath. Each layer is differentiated from the other by its degree
jof volcanic activity,

Gehenna has the following traits.

*_ Normal gravity. Gravity is similar to that of the Material Plane, |
bur naturally occurring volcanic mountains seem to float free in |

an infinitely larger void. Graviry is normal on the steep slopes.
of a mountain, and a fall causes a creature to tumble. until a
chance ledge catches it, or until continued abrasions from the |
Jong fall completely. shred the victim.
i Divinely morphic. Lesser deities can alter Gehenna’s mountain-|
ous landscape. Ordinary creatures find that Gehenna is as alter-
4 able as the Material Plane.
Mildly evil-aligned,
Random Encounters; Use the Hellish Encounters table (page.
_167) for random encounters in Gehenna. j

Example Gehenna Site: Valley of the Outcast

Mungoth, the third layer of Gehenna, is a cold place. The light of |
scattered volcanic vents is equivalent to that of a full moon,
making navigation across the icy slopes difficult. Mungoth’s fea-|
tures are further masked by heavy precipitation, in the form of
{both snow and ash. That makes it a good place for those who don't
iwant to be found.
\_A deep chasm contains a well-hidden realm sheltered from the,
jever-present acidic snow. Built of equal parts basaltic rock and
giant bones is a rough castle, The castle is scaled to the proportions.
of its master, an outcast fire giant wizard named Tastuo. Her eight,
siblings, fellow outcasts, also reside in the castle,

‘The fiends who rule Mungoth have several interlocking con-
tracts with Tastuo, which helps ensure the valley's safety should
her enemies ever find her. Tastuo never names those enemies,
bur her predicament makes her sympathetic.to the plight of rrav-,

jelers seeking asylum. Thus, the Valley of the Outcast doubles as ai
way station for visitors in need, but only if they can find it_And
the fiends of Mungoth are always looking for intruders—
Tastuo’s protection doesnit extend beyond her castle walls. }

To draw an encounter map for the area near the Valley of the)
Outcast, use the guidelines for forbidding mountains (see page.
89). Then cover all surfaces with snow, deep snow, or ice as you
see fir

The snow-ash mixture on Mungoth deals 1d4 points of acid
damage per minute of exposure. Only artificial structures or cav-
erns offer any lasting protection against the snowfall, which blows
through any given area 80%.of the time.

NINE HELLS OF BAATOR

This plane, sometimes simply.called Baator or Hell, is the ultimate
realm of law and evil, the epitome of premeditated, crafted cruelty.
The devils of the Nine Hellsall obey a higher law than themselves,
but all that really means is that they chafe and rebel against their
starus, Most will.undertake any plot or action, no matter how foul,
to advance themselves,

The Nine Hells compare well with any other lower plane in
terms of sheer diversity of vileness. Devils are more cunning,
more subtle, and more dangerous than other fiends—or so say the
devils. A demon revels in slavering, insane, evil power, but a devil
always has an agenda, a plan of attack, and a carefully conceived
plot for retribution if necessary.

Baator consists of nine layers, each lower than the next, like
ledges stepping down into an ever-deeper pit. From top.to bottom,
they are Avernus, Dis, Minauros, Phlegethos, Stygia, Malbolge,
Maladomini, Cania, and Nessus.

The Nine Hells haye the following traits.

+ Infinite size. Each layer extends outward infinitely, but the.cir-|
cumference of each inner ledge (which opens onto the Pirand|
the next lower layer) is finite, 4
Divinely morphic, Entities of at least lesser deity status can alter!
the Nine Hells. Ordinary creatures find that the Nine Hells is as |
alterable as.the Material Plane.

No elemental or energy traits. Elemental and energy influ-
ences.are balanced, except on the layer of Phlegethos (which
has the fire-dominant trait). The layer of Cania is bitterly cold
