and has a special cold-dominant trait. Creatures there take

3d10 points of cold damage each round they're away from

shelter of some kind.
* Mildly law-aligned and mildly evilaligned.
Random Encounters: Use the Hellish Encounters table (page.
167) for random encounters in the Nine Hells, +
Example Nine Hells Site; Bronze Citadel o
[This brutish, unimaginative city on Avernus covers dozens of
|square miles and features twelye.concentric ring walls, each bris-|.
tling with war machines, The city is filled with hundreds of thou-
isands of lesser devils of all kinds bound for the Blood War.

Because Avernus is the likeliest beachhead for any massed de-
monic attack, fortifications are always being added to the Bronze
Citadel. Work gangs of lesser devils constantly expand the city.
The construction is so pervasive that bone scaffolding is as likely

sto be supporting a given wall as not.

To.create an encounter map for the Bronze Citadel, start with |
ithe battlefield elements described in the Plains Terrain section
isee page 91), Then add walls, towers and gatehouses described in |

the Urban Features section (page 99), and augment both with |
magical fearures such as flaming surfaces (which deal damage as a
wall of fire spell), self-firing ballistas, and spikes that grow out of
the walls (a trap triggered by the proximity of enemy troops).

Any kind of devil can be found here. Even a fight with low-level

devils will quickly escalate, because the devil armies are disciplined
,enough to train their troops to report to their. commanders that
jthey're under attack, Unless they employ stealth, characters will
\work their way up the food chain, eventually facing horned devils,
Lice devils, and pir fiends sent to find out what the commotion is,

INFERNAL BATTLEFIELD OF ACHERON

{The hue and cry of battle is the first sound a. soldier hears when
\arriving on Acheron and the last sound a refugee hears.when leav-
ing, That's all Acheron offers: conflict, war, strife, and struggle,
Many armies populate Acheron, but leaders are scarce. Truly,
rebels sithout a cause are common on Acheron, whether they're
mortals, fiends, or celestials.

Avalas, Thuldanin, Tintibulus, and Ocanthus are the layers of}
Acheron, each made of island- or even continent-sized iron cubes,
floating in an airy void. Sometimes the cubes collide, and echoes of |
past collisions linger throughout the plane, mingling with the ring
of sword on sword as armies clash across the faces of the cubes,

Acheron has the following traits.

Objective directional gravity, Which way is down depends on
which face of a cube youre on. Walking across edges between
faces can be dizzying for the inexperienced.

Divinely. morphic. Acheron changes at the whim of its deities,
|_Ordinary creatures must use spells and physical effort to
| change the infernal battlefield.

[+ Mildly law-aligned,

Random Encounters: Use the Hellish Encounters table (page
167) for random encounters.on Acheron.

Example Acheron Site: Thuldanin's War-Cubes
The cubes of this layer are riddled with pockets and hollows. Sur-
face pits lead down into labyrinthine spaces cluttered with the
refuse of every war that was ever fought here.

Broken scraps of a myriad of devices are everywhere. Great ships
that have burst asunder, toppled siege towers, enormous weapons,
\steam-driven carriages, flying devices of every description, and.con-
\traptions.with even more obscure sources of power and purpose can
ibe found within these cubes, Most of the refuse is inoperative, petri-
{fied to stonelike immobility by the “preservative” quality of the layer.

Scavenging for intact weapons is an occupation for many.a

team of salvagers and opportunists, because many quality weapons/
and engines of war are scattered through the rubble on Thuldanin, |

But wise salvagers dont spend too long on Thuldanin, because |
creatures can be petrified just as objects can be. Any given objector |
creature has a.1% cumulative chance per 30 days spent on Thuldanin |
of spontaneously petrifying into stone. Objects or creatures petrified |

jby the natural qualities of Thuldanin cannot be returned to their pre-
{vious state, except by such high-level magic as a wish or miracle spell.

To make encounter maps for the war-cubes, simply create
expansive dungeon terrain: large rooms, wide hallways, tall ceil-
ings, and so forth. Then fill much of it with junk (light rubble or,

_dense rubble), Add large structures such as catapults, war galleys, |
and strange clockwork devices. Finally, add a few stames—unfor-}
tunate ex-adventurers who lingered too long looking for treasure.

Characters searching for treasure will undoubtedly confront
rival salyagers; Thuldanin is known throughout the Great Wheel,
so almost anyone or anything can be searching the caverns of the,
war-cubes, Not everything in Thuldanin is ruined. Constructs

,such as inevitables and golems might yet be functional, springing

|to. action when the characters draw near. To represent the riches of ,

|the war-cubes, considerall creatures encountered here (except the |
iconstructs) to have double standard treasure. But rather than put-
ting the treasure with the creatures, hide it among the debris of.
war and let the characters find the loot,

CLOCKWORK NIRVANA OF MECHANUS
Mechanus is the plane where perfectly regimented order reigns
supreme. It consists of equal measures of light and dark, and equal.
proportions of heat and cold. On Mechanus, all Jaw is reflected in|
a single infinite realm of immense clockwork gears, all inter-|
locked, all turning according to their own measure. The cogs seem |
to be engaged in.a.calculation so vast that no deity knows its pur-|
pose, except that itis somehow a function of law. |

At first glance, the nature of Mechanus seems straightforwand.|

However, subtleties lurk just below the surface. Every kind of law

can be found in the Clockwork Nirvana of Mechanus, from

simple maxims to devilishly twisted rules of decorum,
Mechanus has the following traits.

* Objective directional gravity. The direction of “down” is
oriented to the face of each rotating cog, Walking between cogs
can be dizzying for newcomers—and dangerous if a traveler
falls between the cogs,

* Divinely morphic. Lesser deities.can_ alter Mechanus with a
thought; ordinary creatures xequire spells and physical effort to
do so. eee

+_ Strongly law-aligned,

Random Encounters: Alternate between the Hellish Encoun-
ters table and the Heavenly Encounters table (page 167) for
random encounters in Mechanus.

 

Example Mechanus Site:
Fortress of Disciplined Enlightenment
This structure sits on its own cog, and its spires and towers rise
high into the void of Mechanus, The fortress is 2 miles in diame-
ter, and some of its spires reach rwice that height. Inevitables
enforcing the “don't trespass” law patrol the parapets, keeping a
vigilant.eye out for fiendish infiltrarors or colonizing formians.
A group of mortals from the Material Plane called the Frater-
nity of Order.are the masters of the fortress, The members of the |
Fraternity of Order believe that if they can but tease forth every ;
law of the cosmos, they sill have the power of the deities, To that}
end, they built this stronghold on the plane of ultimate lay. _|
A horde of clerks, functionaries, legal aides, translators, mathe-|
maticians, philosophers,.and bureaucrats staff the Fortress of Dis-|
ciplined Enlightenment. Most belong to. the Fraternity of Order, |
though sometimes visitors are granted access to study at the
jyaunted libraries of the Fortress. The libraries extend through
jhundreds of rooms and hold tomes of legal volumes from all over
the Great Wheel.

 

 
