 

Characters seeking knowledge at the Fortress are never turned
away outright, although a blizzard of paperwork must be negoti-
ated before the fraternity allows access to the library's general
stacks. To study rarer, restricted tomes, characters must first com-
plete a quest for the Fraternity. A typical mission would be to res-|
cue a bit of abstract lore from a well-guarded drow library, 4

PEACEABLE KINGDOMS OF ARCADIA J
\Arcadia thrives with orchards of perfectly lined trees, ruler-)
,straight streams, orderly fields, and cities laid out in geometrically)
[pleasing shapes. The mountains are unblemished by erosion.
\Everything on Arcadia works toward the common good and a
flawless form of existence. Here, nothing intrudes on harmony.

It is said that everything on Arcadia is as perfect as it can be, nei-
ther as strictly regimented as Mechanus nor as devoted to the perfec-
tion of the individual as Celestia, But this is not entirely accurate. In

fact, the inhabitants of Arcadia are often so convinced of their own.
,righteousness that they are hard-pressed to recognize their own flaws. |
| Arcadia has two layers: Buxenus and Abellio. They look similar, |

jexcept that Buxenus holds the armed camps of the celestial,
dwarves and archons that protect the plane.

Arcadia has the following traits.

Divinely morphic, Lesser deities can transform Arcadia with a

wave of the hand, but the plane has the alterable morphic trait

for other creatures.

Mildly law-aligned.

|_Random Encounters: Use the Heavenly Encounters table

\(page 167) for random encounters in Arcadia.

Example Arcadia Site: Mount Clangeddin
A perfectly conical mountain, standing apart from any range, rises
\at least thirty thousand feet above the fields below, its peak
,wreathed in clouds and storms. The great dwarf hero Clangeddin
\Silverbeard raised this edifice.

‘The mountain’ interiors are riddled with great halls, galleries,
and dwarf-carved roads paved with flagstones. Costly lamps, hot
and cold forges, and citywide feasting halls all provide light and
merriment for the underground visitor. Strangers are welcome,
here, especially those who come to order special weapons from the.
legendary smiths who labor in the hottest portions of the forge.|

The celestial dwarves who live within Mount Clangeddin
spend half of each day drilling, training, and perfecting their mili-
tary skills to honor their lord Clangeddin. Visitors seeking to raise
an army_sometimes.come to Mount Clangeddin, tempting the
dwarves with stories of righteous warfare. Sometimes, the elders
are moved by such appeals and assign axes.to the. cause.

Others come seeking the legendary weapons that bear the mark
iof Clangeddin’s smiths. Though Mount Clangeddin is only a small
|city, weapons of any price can be bought (but not sold) here.
| To draw an encounter map for Mount Clangeddin, use the
{Dungeon Terrain section (page 59). Because the dwarves take their

stonecraft seriously, the walls, ceiling, and floors are the highest
quality masonry and flagstone.

SEVEN MOUNTING HEAVENS OF CELESTIA
The single sacted mountain of Celestia rises from an infinite sea of
holy water to incomprehensible heights, Here, justice, kindness,
order, celestial grace, and mercy are.the rules. Here, watchful eyes
hold the ramparts against evil in all its many forms. Here, all

things are beautiful
The Seven Mounting Heavens are the planar home for mortal
jsouls who feel kindness and empathy for their fellow creatures,
\Butitisa paradise that fiends of the lower planes would conquer if
\they.could. Mount Celestia represents.a promise of betterment
and ultimate union with the powers of good and law for those
worthy, So supplicants of every stripe ascend the layers, one after!
the other, to the ultimate height of the Heavenly City (the sixth,

layer), and from there into the Illuminared Heaven, about which |
nothing is known. j
Celestia has the following traits. }
Divinely morphic. Celestia is morphic for entities of at least
lesser deity status, It is alterable in the normal manner for more
ordinary creatures.

Mildly good-aligned and mildly law-aligned.

Random Encounters: Use the Heavenly Encounters table
(page 167) for random encounters on Celestia.

Example Celestia Site: Empyrea
Also called the City of Tempered Souls, Empyrea sits.on the edge
of a cold, clear mountain lake, The many healing fountains and
curative waters in Empyrea can restore withered limbs, lost,
speech, derangement, and life energy itself, those who ail need |
only find the right fountain. Empyrea is also known for its healers
.and hospitals, and many a pilgrim seeks to reach this legendary
[site of perfect health.
Nonevil, nonchaotic characters who seek relatively simple.
jcures (damage, disease, or negative levels, for example) are freely
healed. Those seeking cures for more exotic ills (strange curses,
lost levels, and some rare, vile diseases). must pass the test of,
Empyrea—ritual combat against an archon ot angel with a CR
equal to the character's level. If multiple PCs are fighting, they
each get an archon or angel to fight. The fight is not to the death,
but to unconsciousness—and in fact those whe kill their foes out-
right are banished from Empyrea. Those who pass the test are,
granted the cure they desire. }
The fight takes place in one of many courtyards,.an open area,
with slender, decorative pillars and shallow pools of purest. water,

TWIN PARADISES OF BYTOPIA |
Bytopia is unique among the Outer Planes because the surfaces of
its two layers face each other like the covers of a closed book. By
looking up from Dothion, the “top” layer of the plane, the traveler
can see Shurrock, its other layer. In similar fashion, one: may stand
on Shurrock and see the towns and farms of Dothion overhead.

Each layer of Bytopia plane is an idealized world. Dothion is a
tamed, pastoral landscape, while Shurrock is an untamed wilder
ness, The philosophy of the plane—personal achievement work-
ing with social interdependence—infuses both its layers.

The distance between the two layers of the plane is abour 1
mile, though sharp mountains rise from either side and some-
times meet in the middle. Travel between the two layers is
common by flying as well as climbing the mountains.

Bytopia has the following traits,

Objective directional gravity. “Down” exists in opposite direc-

tions on.the plane's two facing layers. Gravity is normal until

one crosses the invisible border between the two layers; then it
reverses, Those who break through the border find themselves
falling toward the other plane.

Divinely morphic. Lesser deities can transform Bytopia’s twin

landscapes, and other creatures find Bytopia as changeable as

other Ourer Planes,

Mildly good-aligned.

Random Encounters: Use the Heavenly Encounters table

(page 167) for random encounters on Bytopia.

Example Bytopia Site; Mottlegrasp’s Orchard
Mortlegrasp, an 18th-level celestial gnome wizard, tends an or-|
chard in rural Dothion where the trees grow rubies, emeralds, and |
other precious gems. A typical tree produces 1d4x1,000 gp worth |
of gems each year, and the orchard covers several acres. {

Some of Mottlegrasp’s trees provide far more valuable fruit. He
.can.offer fruit of Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence,
| Wisdom, and Charisma, These objects function as the relevant

ability-enhancing tomes and manuals (described in Chapter 7),
