providing an inherent bonus to an ability score when eaten. The

riper the fruit, the higher the bonus,
Neither money, good deeds, nor fame will earn the PCs such
fruit, Mottlegrasp never parts with his fruit willingly, and he

politely turns down any_offers to.do so—with one exception:
Mottlegrasp will occasionally pay characters in fruit if they guard ,

his orchard for a week's time,

The venerable gnome is no fool. He will hire guards for his,

orchard only if he suspects a threat will emerge that an 18th-level

wizard on his home turf cant handle. The characters will likely |

face peril after peril during their week as orchard-guards

Todraw an encounter mapof Mortlegrasp’s Orchard, place trees
in neat rows of every other square. Every four fows or so, draw an
irrigation canal (treat asa S-foot-wide trench, because it's rarely
full of water).

BLESSED FIELDS OF ELYSIUM

Elysium is the most strongly good-aligned plane on the Great}
| Wheel, a place of good untrammeled by issues of law or chaos,On
this plane, doing well by others is more highly valued than any,

other ideal.

The first layer of the plane, Amoria, is a riot of color. Visitors
marvel at brilliant green meadows dotted with starburst flowers,
pools as deep blue as a jay’s plumage, and silver clouds drifting
against a perfect sky. The plane itself seems to vibrate with its own
sense of life and intensity. It is usually a peaceful place, and tran-

.quility seems to seep into the bones and souls of those that cross it.

Elysium consists of four layers strung together by the myriad
courses of the River Oceanus. The first layer is most like the Mate-
rial Plane, with sweet-smelling pines and flowering trees along its
banks giving way to open meadows and rolling fields. The second
layer, Eronia, is rougher and more mountainous, and rapids and
falls are common along the channels of the river. Belierin, the third
\layer, isa great marsh awash with life. The deepest layer is the sea of
Thasasia.and the headwaters of the great River Oceanus, dotted
with islands where veteran heroes of good relax for eternity.

The size of the River Oceanus varies from.a braid of smallerside
channels to a mighty flow that tops its banks and floods the. sur-

rounding area. Along the river are islands, low gravel bars, and
rocky promontories, which are often the homes of honored souls!

of the dead and more powerful denizens.

Elysium has the following traits,
* Divinely morphic. Elysium is easily altered by deities. Other
creatures find that their spells and physical_efforts work
normally here.
Minor positive-dominant.
Strongly good-aligned.
Entrapping, This is a trait unique to Elysium (although Hades
has.a similar entrapping trait). A nonoutsider on Elysium expe-
riences increasing joy.and satisfaction while there. Colors
become brighter and more vivid than on the Material Plane,
sounds more melodious and soft, and the nature of others
seems more pleasant and understanding. At the conclusion of
every week spent.on Elysium, any nonoutsider must make a
Will save (DC 10 + the number of consecutive weeks on
Elysium), Failure indicates that the individual has fallen under
the control of the plane, cannot leave the plane of his or her
own volition, and has no desire to.do so, Memories of any previ-
cous life fade into nothingness, and it takes.a.wish.or minacle spell
to return such characters to normal.
Random Encounters: Alternate between the Heavenly En-
counters.table and the Bearific Encounters table (page 167) for
random encounters in Elysium.

Example Elysium Site: Heroic Isles

These islands are also known as the Isles of the Holy Dead, the!
Hills of Avalon, and the Islands beyond the World. Here the best,

of the good-aligned:souls who have passed beyond the mortal
world make their homes, retaining some knowledge and perhaps,
some power from their previous lives, Here hero-kings wait for)
the day when their nations need them again, and religious schol-
jars research great mysteries in huge libraries.
|. Often these great petitioners made the journey to Thalasia while
,still alive but approaching death, whether from age orfrom wounds
taken in noble bartle, Elysium then slowly converted them to pow-
erful outsiders, and they scarcely felt the pang of death. In Thalasia
they retain their powers and memories but are at peace with them-,
selves and with others, the ultimate reward for good. Angels guard
the shores of each island, observing visitors silently and ruthlessly
swarming any who would break the peace of this place.

Because.the dead heroes remember their mortal deeds, they can
be sources of information and inspiration forthe PCs. Some may
have unfinished business on the Material Plane and charge the

icharacters with righting some long-ago wrong.

|The characters may seek our the Heroic Isles as part of an
\adventure thar takes place elsewhere, When the Prophecy of the
_Moon Asunder must again be forestalled, it's useful to get advice
from the paladin who forestalled ita thousand years ago.

WILDERNESS OF THE BEASTLANDS

The Wilderness of the Beastlands is a plane of nature unbound. Ir
is a plane of forests, ranging from mangroves hung heavy with
moss to snowfall-laden pines to acres of sequoias so thick thatno
light penetrates their canopy. Oak, birches, spruces, firs, and,
imaples are. common here, and explorers into.the plane's distant,
corners find great forests of giant fungi and mushrooms. Vast
deserts are found here as well, though they are hardly barren,
wastelands. Cactus, aloe, and other desert plants thrive in the.arid

parts of the Beastlands. 5
The air of the Beastlands is ideal for anything that grows. It is,

humid and warm in the swampy regions, calm and cool beneath

the sequoias, breezy and clear among the beeches, and arid and hot
in the more open lands.

The Beastlands consists of three layers, each layer frozen at cer
tain parts of the day. The top layer, Krigala,is a place of eternal day-
light; Brux is a domain of perpetual twilight; and the third layer,
Karasuthra, is a land of night illuminated only by a pale moon.

The most important aspect.of the Beastlands is how the plane
favors animals of all kinds, Like Arcadia, it isa plane heavily popu-
lated by animals and magical beasts, Traditional towns, cities, and
strongholds are few.and far between. Those who make their
homes here seek to live with the trees, not against them.

The Beastlands has the following traits.

+ Divinely morphic. Deities can shape the plane's traits with a
thought, bur mortal creatures must use spells or physical effort
to affect a change in the plane,

* Mildly good-aligned
Random Encounters: Use the Beatific Encounters table (page

167) for random encounters in.the Beastlands.

Example Beastiands Site: _Karasuthra Hunter's Glen

The lowest layer of the Beastlands, Karasuthra wears a cloak of
continual night. A silver moon whose phases change slowly hangs
in the open sky, surrounded by stars that lazily drift across the sky.
Only a few beacons of moonlight piece the thick canopy of the
forest here, forming silver shafts that touch the forest floor. |
Karasuthra is the home of the most dangerous night creatures,
predators relentless in the pursuit of their quarry. Hunters from}
the Material Plane sometimes journey_to Karasuthra looking for/
the most dangerous of trophies, Some survive to.try a second time.
Among the most famous game in the place.are the white stags.
These elusive creatures (treat as celestial chargers; see page 250 of
ithe Monster Manual) live for the thrill of the chase and consider
the hunt partof their life cycle. Even the most devoted defender of

 
