 

PLANAR TRAITS with.a_slower time flow may keep them out of action for several.

  

Designing a plane is like designing anyother landscape— years.and make their return a problem for furure generations,
although most planes are more fantastic and strange than the Enmtic Time: Some planes have time that slows down and speeds
forests, mountains, and plains that dominate the Material Plane. up, so.an individual may lose or gain time as he moves between the.
You might include exotic rerrain, vast dungeons, mighty for-| {nwo planes, For each plane with erratic time you create, develop a
tresses, or cities teeming with weird denizens. In addition to these; _{random generation table ro. determine the rate of time's flow. The
jelements, youlll want to establish planar traits: rules that define| _ following is provided as an example.
Lhow a plane works in general terms.
The planes of D&D's Great Wheel cosmology each have planar} 4% ‘Time on Material Plane Time on Erratic Time Plane
traits that explain how characters move, fight, and cast spells, 01-10 1 day Tround
there. The Elemental Plane of Fire, for example, has the fire-dom- 11-40 1 day Lhour
inanturait, which means that the very substance of the plane deals 41-60 1 day lday
3410 points of fire damage every round to creatures present on the 61-90 1 hour lday.
plane. The Astral Plane has the subjective directional gravity trait, 91-100 1 round lday
so creatures on the plane decide for themselves which way they =
would like gravity to pull, Limbo has the strongly chaos-aligned You'll want to set how often (by Material Plane standards) a plane
-trait, so nonchaoric characters are penalized there. jwwith the erratic time trait shifts, requiring a new roll of the dice, To
When you design a plane for your own cosmology, choose the _{the denizens of such a plane, time flows naturally and the shift is
(traits described for planes on the Great Wheel (pages 147-150) unnoticed. 4
jor invent your own, You can mix and match the traits from dif-| _|__If a plane is timeless with respect to. magic, any spell cast with a
ferent planes if you like. For example, you could create a plane noninstantaneous duration is permanent until dispelled.
called the Forge of Heaven that was both fire-dominant and Finite Shape: A plane with this trait has defined edges or borders,
good-aligned. These borders may adjoin other planes or hard, finite borders such
Planar traits usually apply to the plane as a whole, but a plane is as the edge of the world or a great wall. Demiplanes are often finite.
a vast place. There may be particular locations within a plane Self-Contained Shape: On planes with this trait, the borders wrap
where the rules are different, perhaps because of natural effects, in on themselves, depositing the traveler on the other side of the
\godly interference, or magical localities. map. A spherical plane is an example of a self-contained, finite.
A plane usually has traits that describe its gravity, the nature of plane, but there can be cubes, toruses, and flat planes with magical |
{time on it, its size and shape, its morphic nature (how easy it is to edges that teleport the traveler to an opposite edge when he!
\change reality there), its alignment, its elemental or energy type, crosses them. Some demiplanes are self-contained,
jand any unusual effects on magic that occur on the plane. That's Static; These planes are unchanging. Visitors cannot affect
{not an exhaustive list, however—design whatever planar traits living residents of the plane, nor objects that the denizens possess,
,you need to make a plane you create work the way_you want it to. Any spells that would affect those on the plane have no effect,
} unless the plane's static trait is somehow removed or suppressed.
Additional Traits Spells cast before entering a plane with the static trait remain in
Here are some planar traits that arent used inthe D&D cosmology. _ effect, however.
bur that. might make good building blocks for planes you design, Even moving an unattended object within a static plane
Light Gravity: The gravity on a plane with this trait is less intense, _ requires a DC 16 Strength check. Particularly heavy objects may
than on the Material Plane, Asa result, creatures find that they.can | be impossible to move.
lift more, bur their movements tend to be ungainly, Characters.on. Sentient: These planes are ones that respond to a single thought—
a plane with the light gravity trait take a—2 circumstance penalty, __ that of the plane itself. Trayelers would find the plane's landscape

on attack rolls and Balance, Ride, Swim, and Tumble checks. All! changing as a result of what the plane thought of the travelers, either
items weigh half as much. Weapon ranges double, and characters. becoming more ot less hospitable depending on its reaction.

gain a +2. circumstance bonus on Climb and Jump checks. Alignment Tits: How a plane develops an alignment trait is 2
Strength and Dexterity dont charige as a result of light gravity, _chicken-and-egg situation. Certain planes are predisposed to par-
but what you can do with such scores does change. These advan- ticular alignments, so creatures of those alignments tend to settle
tages apply_to travelers from other planes as well as natives. there. This makes the planes even more disposed to that align-
Falling characters on a light gravity plane take 1d4 points of ment, and so on. That does nor have to be true for “home of the
idamage for each 10 feet of the fall (maximum 20d4). deities” planes you create.
You can choose to decrease gravity even further, doubling or A strongly neutral-aligned plane would stand in opposition to
tripling the effect for a particular plane. all other moral and ethical principles: good, evil, law, and chaos.
Flowing Time: On_some planes, time can flow faster or slower. Such a plane may be more concerned with the balance of the
One may travel. to another plane, spend a year there, then return to alignments than with accommodating and accepting alternate
the Material Plane.to find that only six seconds have elapsed. points of view. In. the same fashion as for other strongly aligned
Everything on the plane returned to is only a few seconds older. planes (see page 149), strongly neutral-aligned planes apply a -2
But for that traveler and the items, spells, and effects working on circumstance penalty to Intelligence-, Wisdom-, or Charisma-
him, that year away was entirely real, based checks by any creature that isn't neutral. The penalty. is.
When designating how time works on planes with flowing applied twice (once for law/chaos, and once for good/evil), so neu-
time, put the Material Plane's flow of time first, followed by the tral good, neutral evil, lawful neutral, and chaotic neutral crea-|
.same flow in the other plane. For the example above, it would be 1 tures take a—2 penalty and lawful good, chaotic good, chaotic evil,
,round = 1 year. For every year on the other plane, one 6-second and lawful evil creatures take.a—+ penalty,
jround has elapsed on the Material Plane, Dead Magic; These planes have no magic at all. A plane: with, the!
| The clever and the unscrupulous can abuse planes that have dead magic trait functions in all respects like an antimagic field |
flowing time. ‘The ability to step into.a.slower time flow for the _spell. Divination spells cannot detect subjects within a dead magic
purpose. of healing and regaining spells is an effective weapon, _| plane. nor can aspellcaster use teleport or another spell to move in
against others, You'll be back, completely refreshed, before your! _ Lor out. The only exception to the “no magic” rule is permanent

foes even know youre gone, Throwing opponents into a plane, _ planat portals, which still function normally.
