 

method allows some choice but doesn't let.a player have all her
ability scores exactly where she wants them. A character might
have to learn to cope with unwanted clumsiness (just.as in real
life), or she may have a. personal ralent that isn't usual for a mem-
ber of her class (such as a high Strength score for a sorcerer).

6. Customized Average Characters: Roll 3dé six times and ar-_
range scores as desired. This method produces characters more!
like average people but still allows customization. The player may.
{reroll all scores if his ability modifiers roral —3 or lower, or if he}

\doesn't have any score of 12 or higher.
, 7. Random Average Characters; Roll 3dé six times and place!
Hnorder (Str, Dex, Con, Int, Wis, Cha), This is the strictest method.
It frequently generates virtually unplayable characters, but it
makes high scores very special. The player may reroll all scores if
her ability modifiers total ~3 or lower, or if she doesn't have any
score of 12 or higher.
.. 8. High-Powered Characters; Roll Sdé six times, discarding
ythe nwo lowest dice each time. Arrange as desired. This is just right,
(fora high-powered game where the characters need to be really}
\good just to survive. The player may reroll all scores if his ability |
modifiers dont total at least +2 or if he doesn't have at least one.
score of 15 ot higher

RPGA CHARACTERS AND ABILITY SCORES
In the new D&D Campaigns program administered by the RPGA*
Network, the ability scores of player. characters are generated

jusing the standard point buy method. In some.older RPGA cam-
Lpaigns, nonstandard point buy methods are used. For instance,
\characters in the Living Greyhawk campaign are built using the
|28-point nonstandard point buy method, because. it's a rougher
|campaign that requires more powerful characters.

Why does the RPGA use the point buy method instead of
rolling dice to generate ability scores? Unlike most home games
i with one Dungeon Master and a small group of players, RPGA

D&D games are played by thousands of players, and are adjudi-

cated by hundreds of Dungeon Masters. At large gaming events,

an RPGA DM doesnt always play with a familiar group of players

or characters. In these environments, the point buy. system pro-,
vides a way for players to. customize their characters, while ar the |
same time enabling the DM to reasonably gauge the power of all,
the characters in the game.

For more information about the D&D Campaigns program, and

how to participate in RPGA events, go to www.wizards.com/rpga.

SS RACES

An easy way.to customize a campaign is to.change the races that
,players.can choose from when ccc nneeagei

SUBRACES

{Tall, slim halflings are called tallfellows, Sylvan elves are reclusive,
tough elves who live in the woods. Mountain dwarves are even
sturdier than their mere common counterparts, These offshoots of
the standard races are called subraces,

Some of the common races of the D&D game—dwarves, elves;
gnomes, and halflings—are divided into subraces to showcase
slight differences in appearance, outlook, and adaptation, Aside
from a few minor differences, members of a subrace resemble
members of the race as described in the Player's Handbook, Subraces

«make player choices varied and interesting, but you might also.
want to use subraces that are limited to NPCs. A good way to intro-
duce a subrace into the campaign is to create an NPC encounter
with the existing characters. By introducing a subrace as an NPC,
you demonstrate to the players how you see members of that sub-
race. Sometimes, players are not interested in playing a new sub-
race bur still appreciate its appearance as a new and interesting
aspect of your campaign. The major subraces of the common races

are. described in the appropriate entries in the Monster Manual.

You.might choose not to allow PCs to be members of subraces.,
After all, subraces tend to stray from the archetypal races in the,
Player's Handbook, and they complicate the otherwise simple (but,

important) racial choices, Some of those presented in the Monster

{ Manual, such as the drow, duergar, and other evil kinds of crea-
\tures, might be inappropriate to your game. The, drow, duergar,
and svirfneblin mightalso be too powerful in relation to the other
PC race choices, See. the Monsters as Races section, page 172, for,

.an explanation of level adjustment and effective character level

(ECL). If you know the ECL of a new character, you.can tell)
whether that PC is right for your campaign.

To.create a new subrace, think of a specific aspect of devia-
tion—culture, climate, or physical stature, Then, as you look atthe.
Player's Handbook description of the standard race, determine what,
changes that deviation would cause to this description. A subrace

umight have different ability score modifications, different skill
+bonuses (such as a +1 or +2 racial bonus on certain skill checks), a
|different favored class, different languages, or even different spe-
cial abilities, such as the dwarf’s poison resistance or the elf's

prowess with a bow.
Keep in mind thar the common races have disadvantages to bal-
ance their advantages. A subrace should not haye a bonus to
Strength and a negative adjustment to Charisma without some
additional considerations, since Strength is so much more impor-
tant (in general) than Charisma. Instead, that dwarf subrace you
create might have +2 to Strength and —2 to Charismaifitalso lacks}

{the standard dwarf’s darkvision and stonecunning abilities, Alrer-|

natively, your dwarf subrace could have +2 to Strength, +2.to Con-|
stitution, 2 to Dexterity, ~2 to Charisma, low-light vision rather
than darkvision, and +2 on Climb checks rather than the stone-|
cunning ability,

In general, strive for balance. Balance an ability score bonus)
with an equivalent ability score penalty. Replace a skill bonus with
a bonus toa different skill ora special ability (such as saving throw.
bonuses or darkvision) with another relatively equal ability. The
range of different abilities and skill modifications is great, so
you're on your own in finding the perfect mix for your campaign.
Look to the subraces in the Monster Manual for good examples, and
consider the following variations as well.

Subterranean: Underground-dwelling versions of the
common races might have darkvision, stonecunning, and a dif-
ferent set of racial enemies. An elf’s familiarity with the bow—a
weapon more suited to outdoor use—might change to familiar-
iry with a weapon better suited to subterranean use, such as the
hand crossbow.

Aligned: A subrace might lean toward one particular align-
ment, affecting its culture and outlook rather than its game statis-
tics. This subrace might have a different favored class or different
language options.

Magical: Deviations that have greater or less affinity for magic
would change favored classes, ability score modifications (particu-
Jarly.to Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma), and traits such as the
gnomes spell-like abilities,

Focused: A subrace might have a special attraction to build-
ing things, destroying things, theft, battle, particular animals,
sailing, nomadic wandering, piety, or virtually anything else that,
you can. conceive. Such a focus probably changes the race's
favored class and skill bonuses and might affect ability score|
modifications as svell.

Wild: A less civilized version of a common race would. prefer]
classes such as barbarian and sorcerer and gain bonuses on Sur-|
vival or Handle Animal checks, }

Larger or Smaller: Subraces that are larger or smaller than

\their common.counterparts offer intriguing options. Medium
thalflings or Small elves would use rules and equipment similar to

that used by other characters of their new size. Conceivably, a cam-
