paign might have Tiny gnomes or Large half-orcs. You should be"
wary of Tiny or Large characters, however, because they alter the
game in significant ways (for example, they take up much less or
much more space in a battle),

Marine: A marine (or coastal or island) version of a common}
race might have gills to breathe water, 2 bonus on Swim checks,
and an affinity with various forms of aquatic wildlife. You should

\also be careful not to simply make marine versions of every race
land creature, since this rapidly becomes too predictable.

Desert, Mountain, Forest (Terrain or Climate Types):
Finally, terrain and climate.can_be the main determinant for a

\subrace specially suited for the environment in which it lives
(desert halflings, arctic gnomes, and soon), These subraces differ
from their standard counterparts primarily in skill bonuses or
bonus feats.

COMMON SUBRACES,

Dwarves Elves 4
| Hill dwarves* High elves* }
Deep dwarves ‘Aquatic elves (sea elves)
Mountain dwarves Drow (dark elves)
Duergar (gray dwarves) Gray elves
Wild elves (grugach)
Wood elves (sylvan elves)
Gnomes Halflings
_ Rock gnomes* Lightfeet*
| Svirfneblin. (deep gnomes) Talifetlows.
| Forest gnomes Deep halflings

* The standard dwarves, elves, gnomes,.and halflings described in the
Player's Handbook.

Example Subrace: Gold Dwarves 2
| Haughty and proud, the gold dwarves havea civi ‘lization. approach-
ing the peak of its power. While some are aloof and suspicious, for
the most part they are forthright warriors and shrewd traders.
Racial Traits: Gold dwarves have all the dwarf racial traits,
described on page 14 of the Player’s Handbook, with the follawing ,
ebicoe
* +2 Constitution, -2. Dexterity: Gold dwarves are stout and)
sonata nol oe guiccccag edesstin rach
+1 racial bonus on attack rolls against aberrations: Gold dwarves”
are trained in special combat techniques against these bizarre crea-
tures (this replaces the attack bonus against ores and goblinoids).

MODIFYING A COMMON RACE
Sometimes you may wish to modify one of the common races
\(those described in the Player's Handbook). Doing this is different
|from creating a subrace, because it's a change of larger scope—the
lentire common race takes on different characteristics. A campaign
might not even use subraces but still have races modified from the
rules presented in the Player’ Handbook.

The main reason you may want.to modify the Player's Handbook
races is to give your campaign a unique or a specific feel. For
example, in some campaigns, dwarves never use arcane spells. In
others, they may be wizened masters of the arcane arts.

VARIANT: NO SIDEBARS FOR VARIANT RULES

In contrast to the way the rest of the Dungeon Master's Guide is struc-

tured, this chapter is composed of alternative rules, concepts, and ways

of doing things. So, in this chapter, you won't find variant rules set off

in sidebars—the variant rules are actually the meat of the chapter.
Sidebars are used in this chapter for “Behind the Curtain” topics,

just as in the rest of the book.

 

CHANGES THROUGH ADDITION
ND SUBTRACTI
Modifying a race by. ae or subtracting aspects is essentially |
like creating a subrace. One DM may find that darkvision is inap-j
| propriate for dwarves in her campaign, while another believes that
in his campaign elves should never die of old age.

While DMs make such changes to give a unique flavor to a cam-
paign, these changes often end up creating problems with logic or
balance. For example, without darkvision for their dwarves, many,
_.players opt to play a different race instead, and those who do play,
dwarves often eventually feel that they made a wrong decision by.
not choosing, say, 2 half-ore. Meanwhile, in the game where the
DM chose to make elves immortal, no actual game balance issues
arise, yet the players grow dissatisfied with the logical incongruity,
If elves dont die of old age, they ask, why isnk. the world swarming;
with them by now? These problems are not insurmountable, but

‘they show that change must be well thought out. Balance taking an
lability away from a race by replacing it with another. Think
through logic problems, and explain them away with a reasonable _

Lrationale. For example, elves might haye an incredibly low birth
rate and fight in many_swars against evil, keeping their numbers.
low despite their biological immunity to.aging.

Example Modified Race: Half-Human Elves Z
Half-human elves are half-elves raised by elves rather than by
human society.

Half-human elves have all the half-elf racial traits described on |
page 18 of the Player’ Handbook, with the following exceptions.
+ Half-human elves have no racial bonus_on Diplomacy and]

Gather Information checks.

Half-human elves have the same weapon proficiency. as elves,

They receive free Martial Weapon Proficiency feats forthe

longsword, rapier, shortbow, and longbow. Living among,

people who esteem the arts of swordplay and archery, almost all
half-human elves are familiar with these weapons.

Favored Class: Wizard. Half-human elves lack some of the flex-

ibility of half-elves who are raised by humans.

CLASS/RACE RESTRICTIONS
‘The parameters of a campaign can shape the benefits and restric-
tions for playing characters of various races. Sometimes, in order
to reflect specific roles that you want_races to play in the cam-
paign, you can restrict which classes each race can choose from.
Limitations might include any_orall of the following.
* Dwarves.and halflings cannot be wizards, sorcerers, bards,

monks, druids, paladins, or rangers.

+ Elves cannot be druids, paladins, or monks.
* Half-elves.cannot be paladins.or monks.
* Half-ores cannot be wizards, bands, druids, paladins, or rangers.
The fighter class, the cleric class, and the rogue class are rarely
restricted, Each is considered available to any race, although you
can of course create your own exceptions.

Itis perfectly acceptable for you.to say “In my world , ..” and
then describe whatever changes or restrictions you feel necessary.
Be prepared for players to complain if youre denying something
otherwise granted to them in the Player's Handbook for the choices.
they make, Youre the DM, and it's your campaign. It's important, |
however, to. make sure.that the players understand the explana-|
tions behind these changes so that they dont feel restricted for no|
reason. It's often a good idea to balance restrictions.with extra,

jallowances—such as greater starting money, free skills, or some)
other small consideration. baa 4

NEW RACES
You can give your players new race options either by using creatures
lfrom.the Monster Manual or new.creatures of your own design. In
either case, handle this radical change to the campaign with care.

 

 
