 

related ones. Remember that size changes many.aspects.ofacharac-
ter. Benefits should be balanced with drawbacks, Pay strict attention
to culture and environment for ideas. on how.to shape the race.
An interesting avenue you may wish to examine regarding new
race creation is the idea of half-breed races. The Player's Handbook |
already presents the half-elf and the half-orc. The Monster Manual |
gives rules on half-celestials, half-dragons, half-fiends, and more}
\mixed races such as the planctouched (aasimars and tieflings).;
[Half-ogres, half-trolls, or elf-orc, orc—ogre (orog), gnome-half-|
ling, or ore-goblin crossbreeds are all interesting possibilities for
PC races. You may decide that some crossbreeds are impossible or
\unfeasible, such as dwarf-elf, halfling-human, or gnome~ogre,

A DM should consider carefully the classes in her world, for they
jdefine the people who live there. Presented first in this section are
jideas for modifying Player's Handbook character classes. |

MODIFYING CHARACTER CLASSES |

Imagine the desert knife fighter, a fighter with a limited weapon |
selection but early specialization with a knife. Or a fire mage, a
wizard with particularly potent fire spells but no access to any
spell involving water, air, or earth. Or a warrior-priest who func-
tions like a cleric, but with a fighter’s weapon selection and attack
bonus, fewer spells per day, and no access.to healing spells.

1f you're like most DMs, the character classes in the Player's
| Handbook are flexible and varied enough to fit most any niche or
tneed, particularly with the possibilities of multiclassing, the vari-
\ety.of feats and skills, and facets such as school specialization for
\wizards and domain selection for clerics. f you sant to create a
(campaign rich with religion and divine influence, where just

jabout everyone has deity-granted powers, you dont have to over-
(haul all the existing classes. Instead, you can just say everyone (or
most everyone) in.that society multiclasses so that each individual
has at Jeast one level of cleric. You can rule that in such a world,
the cleric class has no XP penalties for multiclassing.

This means, of course, that you have modified the class system.
slightly. Further modifications occasionally allow a DM.to create |
slightly different classes either for variety or to fill a niche created |
in her own campaign. Various aspects of 3 class—such as Hit Dice,
base attack bonus, or spells per level—are easy to change. Hi
ever, even though the numbers are easy to change, you should be
aware of the implications. A rogue with a fighter's attack bonus is
better than a regular rogue unless her gain in this respect is offset
by some loss elsewhere, Likewise, a. wizard with more spells per
day is also unbalanced in regard to other classes without some sig-

snificant drawback.

Special abilities are somewhat more difficult to alter. Always
have a concept with strengths and weaknesses in mind—don't
\just.try.to create the class that can do everything. Remember that

while the paladin hasa lor of special offensive, defensive, and heal-
ing abilities, she has neither access to attack spells nor any way to
sneak around. The wizard is a great spellcaster but has poor
combat abilities, Consider making a swashbuckler rogue with no
ability to sneak attack but more combat- and movement-oriented
feats, or a druid with fewer spells per day but the capability 10 use
wild shape more often

If you have creared a variant class with sneaking and subterfuge
capabilities better than the rogue, or acombat-oriented class more
jadept. at combar than the fighrer, you have gone astray. Variants
jshould exist for variety and flavor, not to outshine the standard
4classes, The other point ro remember is that making a class worse
Jatsomething it's already bad at is not necessarily a balancing

factor. A wizard with a worse attack bonus or a restriction against
taking combat-oriented feats really isn't that much worse off than.
the standard wizard. (She wasnt likely to get involved in melee if.

 

 

she could help it anyway.) Dungeon Masters who are real sticklers,
for class balance might want to avoid modifying character classes |
altogether, Ir's difficult, and the problems it creates don't usually
make themselves evident until the changes are already in play.

Ayoiding the Pitfalls
{The barbarian and fighter classes show the difficulty in balancing
character classes. Both kinds of characters excel at. combar bur do
so in different ways, The fighter gains more and more combat feats ,
.and specialization, while the barbarian realizes his prowess,
ithrough temporary bursts of rage. Take a look at the bonuses and,
modifications that cach class gets. Even though theirattack bonus
progression is the same, a fighter with well-chosen feats outshines
the barbarian, even one who is in a rage, (Once-no longer taging,,
the barbarian’ not even close.) This situation is balanced by the,
other special advantages the barbarian has: an increased move-
{ment rate, more skill points, a greater selection of class skills,
juncanny dodge, and a larger Hit Die. All these aspects need to be
\considered when measuring the balance of a character class.
When modifying a.class, always take the following steps
1. Look to see which standard class seems to be most like the
end result that you want to create.
2. Look to see if another class has special abilities that can be
swapped in exchange for something thar this class has in order to
create what you want.
3. Look to all the other classes and match the newly modified
class against each one, taking into account the following factors,
* Hit Dice
* Base attack bonus progression ;
Base saye bonus progressions . ic
Skill points {
Class skill list +
Weapon and armor proficiency
Spells per day
Spell list selection
* Special class features

No class should excel beyond another one overall, Pay particu-
lar attention to special class fearures and spells.

Variant Spell Lists
One fairly easy way to modify an existing character class or, in
effect, invent an entirely new.one is to. modify the spell list of a
spellcasting class.

Changing the levels of various spells (so that the modified class
has, for example, faster access to illusion spells but doesnt get key
evocation attack spells until later) can create an interesting vari-
ant. Be wary of this method, though. The spell lists and the levels
assigned to the spells on them were designed with a careful bal-
ance in mind. Moving a spell up.or down more than a single level
is probably a bad idea. Don't assume that all spells carry equal
weight, either, Making fireball and fly 2nd-level spells on a spell list
and then pushing se invisibility and magic mouth up to 3rd level to
compensate is unbalancing. While see invisibility and magic mouth
are both useful spells, they dont present balance issues as obvious
as fireball (the lowest-level significant multiple-rarget. damage
spell) and fly (often the difference between avoiding an encounter
or not), When moving spells up or down in level, do so with a.
theme in mind. A caster might be great at divinations and
enchantments but poor at any spells with obvious, dramatic!
effects, Or he may be particularly adept at healing but notes good |
with spells that affect emotions or minds.

The most obvious way to create new spell lists is to take spells]
from the different classes and mix and match, If you combine,
{spells from nwo classes, you create an interesting but potentially
junbalanced new. variant class, Beware the all-powerful hybrid: a
{class with the firepower of a wizard and the healing capacity of a
cleric, Dont simply pick the best spells from all the lists and give
