Weapon and Armor Proficiency; An arcane archer is proft
cient with all simple and martial weapons, light armor, medium
armor, and shields,

Enhance Arrow (Su): At ist level, every nonmagical arrow an
arcane archer nocks and lets fly becomes magical, gaining a +1 en-,
hancement bonus, Unlike magic weapons created by normal
means, the archer need not spend experience points or gold pieces |
to accomplish this task. However, an archer’s magic arrows only
function for her. For every two levels the character advances past)
ist level in the prestige class, the magic arrows she creates gain +1)
greater potency (+1 at ist level, +2 at ard level, +3 at Sth level, +4.at
7th level, and +5 at 9th level),

Imbue Arrow (Sp): At 2nd level, an arcane archer gains the ability
to place an area spell upon_an.arrow, When the arrow is fired, the
spell’s area is centered on where the arrow lands, even if the spell
could normally be centered only on the caster. This ability allows
the archer to use the how’s range rather than the spell’s range. It
takes a standard action to cast the spell and fire the arrow. The arrow.
unust be fired in the round the spell is cast, or the spell is wasted,

Seeker Arrow (Sp): At 4th level, an arcane archer can launch an
arrow once per day at a target known to her within range, and the |
arrow travels to the target, even around corners. Only an unavoid-
able obstacle or the limit of the arrow's range prevents the arrow's
flight. For example, if the target is within a windowless chamber
with the door closed, the arrow cannot enter. This ability negates
cover and concealment modifiers, but otherwise the attack is
rolled normally. Using this ability is a standard action (and shoot-
ing the arrow is part of the action!

Phase Arrow (Sp): At 6th level, an arcane archer can launch an
arrow once per day at a target known to her within range, and the
arrow travels to the target in a straight path, passing through any
nonmagical barrier or wall in its way. (A wall. of force, a wall of fire, o
the like stops the arrow.) This ability negates cover, concealment,
and even armor modifiers, but otherwise the attack is rolled nor-
mally. Using this ability is a standard action (and shooting the
arrow is part of the action)

  
 
 
  
  

An arcane trickster

    
 

Hail of Arrows (Sp): In lieu of her regular attacks, once per day.an.,
arcane archer of 8th level or higher can fire an arrow at each and.
every_target. within range, toa maximum of one target for-every |
arcane archer level she has earned. Each attack uses the archer's
primary attack bonus, and each enemy may only be targeted by a

{single arrow. =

Arrow of Death (Sp): At_L0th level, an arcane archer can create an
arrow of death that forces the target, if damaged by the arrow's
attack, to make a DC 20 Fortitude save or be slain immediately, It

stakes one day to make an arrow of death, and the arrow only func-

tions for the arcane archer who created it. The arrow of death lasts.
no longer than one year, and the archer can only have one such
arrow in existence at a time.

ARCANE TRICKSTER
Arcane tricksters combine their knowledge of spells with a taste
for intrigue, larceny, or just plain mischief. They are among the
most adaptable of adventurers.

Arcane spellcasting and the sneak attack ability are needed to.
qualify for this class, making ir a natural choice for multiclass
wizard /rogues or sorcerer/rogues, Assassins occasionally opt for this
class, bur usually only if they already have. wizard or sorcerer levels,

Arcane tricksters tend to use a seat-of-the-pants approach to
adventuring, loading up on_spells that improve their stealth and
mobility. An NPC arcane trickster is just the sort of person that
might bump into you in.a. crowded tavern. (Check your pockets.)

Hit Die: d4.

Requirements
To qualify to become an arcane trickster, a character must fulfill all
of the following criteria.
Alignment: Any noplawful |
Skills: Decipher Script 7 ranks, Disable Device 7 ranks, Escape.
Artist 7 ranks, Knowledge (arcana) 4 ranks.
Spells: Ability to cast mage hand and at least one arcane spell of
3rd level ot higher.
Special: Sneak attack +2d6.

 

Class Skills
‘The arcane trickster’ class skills (and the key ability for each skill
are Appraise (Int), Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str),

Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int),
Diplomacy (Cha), Disable Device (Int), Disguise (Cha),
Escape Artist (Dex), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Jump
Str), Knowledge (Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Open
Lock (Dex), Profession (Wis), Sense Motive (Wis), Search (Int),
Sleight of Hand (Dex), Speak Language (Int), Spellcraft (Int), Spot
(Sis), Swim (Str), Tumble (Dex),and Use Rope (Dex), See Chapter
4 of the Player's Handbook for skill descriptions.
Skill Points at Each Level: + + Int modifier.

   

Class Features
All of the following are class features of the arcane trickster pres-
tige class, ;

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Arcane tricksters gain no

proficiency with any weapon or armor,

Spells per Day: \When anew arcane trickster level is gained,
the character gains new spells per day as if he had also gained a
level in a spellcasting class he belonged to before adding the pres-
tige class, He does not, however, gain any other benefit a character

 
