page 205 of the Player's Handbook). Instead of improving a weapons

effectiveness against evil foes.(as the paladin spell does), corrupt
weapon makes a weapon more effective against good foes.

Fallen Paladins
Blackguards who have levels in the paladin.class (that is to say, are.
now ex-paladins) gain extra abilities the more levels of paladin}

\they have. Those who have tasted the light of goodness and justice}

and turned away make the foulest villains.

A fallen paladin who becomes.a blackguard gains all of the fol.
lowing abilities that apply, according to the number of paladin
levels the character has.

1-2: Smite good 1/day, (Thisisin addition to the ability granted
to all blackguards at 2nd level, so that a fallen paladin blackguard
can smite good a total of twice per day.)

3-4: Lay on hands, Once per day, the blackguard can use this
supernatural ability to cure himself or his fiendish servant of
,damage equal to his Charisma bonus x his level.

5-6:

7-8: Fiendish summoning. Once per day, the blackguard can,
use a summon manster I spell to call forth an evil creature. For this
spell, the caster level is double the blackguard’s class level.

9-10; Undead companion. In addition to the fiendish servant,
the blackguard gains (at Sth level) a Medium-size skeleton or zom-
bie as a companion. This companion cannot be turned or rebuked
and gains all special bonuses as a fiendish servant when the black-

,guard gains levels, Smite good 3/day.

11 or-more: Favored of the dark deities. Evil deities like noth-
ing more than to see a pure heart corrupted, and thus a fallen pal-
adin of this stature immediately gains a blackguard level for each
evel of paladin he trades in. For example, a character who has

ltwelve levels of paladin can immediately become a 10th-level
jblackguard with all abilities if he chooses to lose ten levels of pal-
\adin. The character level of the character does not change, This, of
course, is in every way.a profitable trade for the evil character,
since he has already lost most of the benefits he gained from
having those paladin levels. However, with the loss of paladin

 

levels, the character no longer gains as many extra abilities for,
being a fallen paladin. Thus, a fallen 15th-level paladin could!
become a 10th-level blackguard/th-level paladin and gain the|

first three extra abilities on this chart because of the character's
remaining five levels of paladin. Smite good 4/day.

The Blackguard's Fiendish Servant
Upon or after.reaching Sth level, a blackguard can call a fiendish
bat, cat, dire rat, horse, pony, raven, or toad to serve him. (See the
Monster Manual for these creatures’ basic statistics.) This crearure
may be used asa guardian (such as a bat),ahelper (such asa cat), or
ja. mount (such as a horse). The blackguard’s servant further gains
HD and special abilities based on the blackguard’s character level
(see.the table).

A blackguard may have only one fiendish servant at a time.
Should the blackguard’s servant die, he may call for another one
after a year and a_day. The new_fiendish servant has all the accu-
mulated abilities due a servans of the blackguard’s current level.

The abilities mentioned in the “Special” column of the accom-
panying table are described below,

Empathic Link (Su); The blackguard has an empathic link
with his servant out to a. distance of up to 1 mile. The blackguard

_cannot see through the servant's eyes, but they can communicate
empathically, Because of the limited nature of the link, only gen-
\eral emotional content (such as fear, hunger, happiness, curiosity)
\can be communicated. Note that the low Intelligence of a low-
\evel blackguard's fiendish servant limits what the creature is able
to. communicate or understand, and even intelligent servants see

the world differently from humans, so misunderstandings are |

always possible,

Sneak attack damage increased by +1d6. Smite good 2/day.|

Character_Bonus Natural Str —
Level HD Armor Adj. Adj. Int Special j
Vathor 42 4 +1 6 Empathic link; improved
lower evasion, share saving

‘ throws, share spells

L13th-1Sth +4 +3. +27 Speak with blackguard

\16th-18th +6 6 +3 8 Blood bond

19th-20th +8 t]___+4 9. Spell resistance.

Choracter Level; The.character level of the blackguard (his.
blackguard level plus his original class level).

Bonus HD: Extra.eight-sided (48) Hit Dice, each of which gains a
Constitution modifier, as normal, Extra Hit Dice improve the servant's
base attack and base save bonuses, as normal. +

Natural Armor Adj.;: This is an improvement.to the servant's
existing natural armor bonus.

Str Adj.: Add this figure to the servant's Strength score..

___Int: The servant's Intelligence score, (A fiendish servant is smarter .
sthan.normal animals.of its kind.)

Because of the empathic link between the servant and the.
blackguard, the blackguard has the same.connection to a place or,
an item that the servant does,

Improved Evasion (Ex): If the servant is subjected to an attack
that normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, it takes
no damage on.a successful saving throw and only half damage ona
failed saving throw. Improved evasion is an extraordinary ability.

Share Saving Throws: For each of its saving throws, the ser-
vant uses either its own base save bonus or the blackguard's,|
whichever is higher. The servant applies its own ability modifiers,
to saves, and it doesnt share any other bonuses on_sayes that the
blackguard might have (such as from magic items or feats).

Share Spells: At the blackguard’s option, he may have any spell
(bur not any spell-like ability) he casts on himself also affect his
servant. The servant must be within 5 feet at the time of casting to
receive the benefit. If the spell has a duration other than instanta-
neous, it stops affecting the servant if it moves farther than $ feet
away and will not affect the servant again even if the servant
returns to the blackguard before the duration expires. Addition-
ally, the blackguard may cast.a.spell with a target of "You" on his
servant (as a touch range spell) instead of on himself. A blackguard
and his.servant can share spells even ifthe spells normally do not
affect creatures of the servant's type (magical beast).

Speak with Blackguard (Ex): If the blackguard’s character
level is 13th or higher, the blackguard and servant can communi-
cate verbally as if they were using a common language. Other crea-
tures do not understand the communication without magical help.

Blood Bond (Ex): If the blackguard’s character level is 16th or
higher, the servant gains a +2 bonus on all attack rolls, checks, and
saves if it witnesses the blackguard being threatened or harmed.
This bonus lasts as long as the threat is immediate and apparent

Spell Resistance (Ex): If the blackguard's character level is
19th or higher, the servant gains spell resistance equal to the
blackguard’s level + 5. To affect the servant with a spell, another
spellcaster must get a result on.acaster level check (1d20.+.caster.
level) that equals or exceeds the servant's spell resistance.

 

DRAGON DISCIPLE

It is known that certain dragons can take humanoid form.and}
even have humanoid lovers. Sometimes a child is born.of this}
,union, and every child of that child unto the thousandth genera-|
tion claims a bit of dragon blood, be it ever so small. Usually, little |
comes of it, hough mighty sorcerers occasionally credit their}
\powers to. draconic heritage, For some, however, dragon blood.
\beckons irresistibly. These characters become dragon disciples,
lwho use their magical power as acatalyst to ignite their dragon
blood, realizing its fullest potential.

 
