 

Requirements
To qualify to become an eldritch knight, a character must fulfill all
the following criteria.
Weapon Proficiency; Must be proficient with all martial
weapons.
Spells: Able to cast 3rd-level arcane spells.

Cjass Skills ,
\The eldritch knight's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) |
are.Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Jump
(Str), Knowledge (arcana) (Int), Knowledge (nobility and royalty).
{(Unt), Ride (Dex), Sense Motive (Wis), Spellcraft (Int), and Swim
(Str). See Chapter 4 of the Player's Handbook for skill descriptions.
Skill Points at Each Level; 2 + Int modifier.

Class Features
All of the following are features of the eldritch knight prestige
class, }
__Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Eldritch knights gain no)
Lproficiency with any weapon or armor, +
Bonus Feat: At 1st level, an eldritch knight may choose a
bonus feat from the list of feats available to fighters. This is in addi-
tion to the feats that a character of any class normally gets every
three levels. The character must still meet any prerequisites for
these bonus feats, including four levels of fighter for the Weapon
Specialization feat.
|._-Spells per Day: From 2nd level on, whena new eldritch knight
Level is gained, the character gains new spells per day as if she had
jalso gained a level in whatever arcane spellcasting class she be-
Uonged to before she added the prestige class. She does not, how-
fever, gain any other benefit a character of that class would have
{gained (bonus metamagic or item creation feats, bard or assassin
abilities, and so on). This essentially means that she adds the level
,of eldritch knight to the level of whatever other arcane spellcast-

ing class the character has, then determines spells per day and
caster level accordingly.

Ifa. character had more than one arcane spelicasting class
before she became an eldritch knight, she must decide to which,
class she adds each level of eldritch knight for the purpose of,
determining spells per day.

HIEROPHANT
A divine spellcaster who rises high in the service of his deity gains
access to spells and abilities of which lesser faithful can only
dream, The hierophant prestige class is open to powerful divine
spellcasters who are approaching access to.the strongest and most
difficult divine spells. They delay the acquisition of these greatest
_gifts in exchange for a deeper understanding of and ability to con-
{trol the power they channel.

Most hierophants were clerics or druids. Some may have pur-
sued another divine spellcasting-focused prestige class, Hiero-
phants rarely multiclass into non-spellcasting classes,

Hierophants are usually high-ranking members of a.church or
druidic circle. Most are exemplary representatives of their faith

Hit Die: ds,

Requirements
To qualify to become a hierophant, a. character must fulfill all the
following criteria.
Skills: Knowledge (religion) 15 ranks,
Feats: Any metamagic feat.
| Spells; Able to cast 7th-level divine spells.

Cass Skills
| The hierophant's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are
Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Heal (Wis),
Knowledge (arcana) (Int), Knowledge (religion) (Int), Profession.

 

(Wis), and Spellcraft (Int), See Chapter 4 of the Player's Handbook,
for skill descriptions.
Skill Points at Each Level: 2 + Int modifier.

Class Features
All the following are class features of the hierophant prestige class
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Hierophants gain no profi-
ciency with any weapon or armor
Spells and Caster Level: Levels in the hierophant prestige
class, even though they do not advance spell progression in the
character's base class, still stack with the character's base spellcast-)
ing levels to determine caster level.
Special Ability: Every level, a hierophant gainsa special ability
of his choice from among the following.
Blast Infidel (Su): A hierophant can use negative energy spells to.
their maximum effect on creatures with an alignment opposed to,
the hierophant. (See the table below for a list of which alignments
jare opposed to each alignment.) Any spell with a description that
sinvolves inflicting or channeling negative energy (inflict spells,
4mass inflict light wounds, harm) cast on a creature of the opposed
alignment works as if under the effect of a Maximize Spell fear
without using a higher-level spell slot). Undead affected by this
ability heal the maximized amount of damage.

Hierophant Opposed

Alignment ___ Alignment

Lawful good Chaotic evil

Neutral good _ Neutral evil

Chaotic good Lawful evil

Lawful neutral Chaotic neutral |
Neutral Lawful good, chaotic good, lawful evil, chaotic evil®
Chaotic neutral Lawful neutral

Lawful evil Chaotic good

Neutral evil Neutral good

Chaotic evil Lawful good

* A neutral hierophant chooses one of these alignments to be the one
that he opposes, for the purposes of this special ability.

Divine Reach (Su): A hierophant with this ability can use touch
spells on targets up to 30 feet away. If the spell requires a melee
touch attack, the hierophant must make a ranged touch attack
instead. Divine reach can be selected a second time as a special
ability, in which case the range increases to 60 feet.

Faith Healing (Su): A hierophant can use healing spells to their
maximum effect on creatures of the same alignment as the hiero-
phant (including the hierophant himself), Any spell with the heal-
ing descriptor cast on such creatures works as if under the effects
of a Maximize Spell feat (without using a higher-level spell slot).

Gift of the Divine (Su): Available only to hierophants with cleric
levels, this ability allows a hierophant to transfer one or more.
uses of his turn undead ability to a.willing creature. (Hiero-
phants who rebuke undead transfer uses of rebuke undead
instead.) The transfer lasts anywhere from 24 hours to one week
(chosen at the time. of transfer), and while the transfer is in
effect, the number of turning attempts per day allowed to the
hierophant is reduced by the number transferred. The recipient
turns undead as a cleric of the hierophant's cleric level bur uses.
her own Charisma modifier,

Mastery.of Energy.(Su): Available only to hierophants with cleric,
levels, this ability allows a hierophant to channel positive or nega-,
tive energy much more effectively, increasing his ability to affect)
undead, Adda +4 bonus.to the hierophant's turning checks and/
turning damage rolls, This ability only affects undead, even if the |
hierophant can turn other creatures, such as with a granted power
of a domain.

Metamagic Feat; A hierophanr can choose a metamagic feat in
place of one of the special abilities described here if desired.
