 

 
 

defensive roll. If she is in a situation that would deny her any Dex-
terity bonus to AC, she cant attempt a defensive roll.

Improved Uncanny Dodge (Ex): At Sth level, a shadowdancer
can no longer be flanked, since she can react to opponents on
opposite sides of her as easily as she can react to a single attacker,
‘This defense denies rogues the ability to use flank attacks to sneak
attack the shadowdancer. The exception to this defense is thata
rogue at least four levels higher than the shadowdancer can flank.
her (and thus sneak attack her).

Ifa character gains uncanny dodge (see above) from a second.
class (such as barbarian or rogue), the character automatically gains.
improved uncanny dodge, and the levels from those classes stack to
determine the minimum rogué level required to flank

the character.

Slippery Mind (Ex): This ability, gained at 7th
level, represents a shadowdancer’s ability to
wriggle free from magical effects that would
otherwise control or compel her. Ifa shadow-
dancer is affected by an enchantment and
fails her saving throw, 1 round later she can
attempt her saving throw again. She only
gets this one extra chance to succeed at her
ving throw. If it fails as well, the spell’s
effects occur normally,

Improved Evasion (Ex): This abil-
ity. gained at 10th level, works like eva:
sion (see above). A shadowdancer
jtakes no. damage at all on suc-
cessful saving throws against
lattacks that allow a Reflex saving
throw for half damage (breath
weapon, fireball, and so on). What's
more, she takes only half damage
leven if she fails her saving throw,
since her reflexes allow her to
get out of harm's way with
incredible speed

THAUMATURGIST
The thaumaturgist reaches
out with divine power to
other planes of existence, call-
ing creatures there to do his
bidding. Evil thaumaturgists
conspire with demons and devils
to gain power on the Material
Plane, while good thaumaturgists send
powerful angels or eladrins on holy quests.

In combat, thaumaturgists often summon creatures from the
Outer Planes to fight on their behalf, These creatures fade away as
soon.as the bartle is over, but thaumaturgists also make agree-
ments with more powerful creatures for long-term service. The
planar ally of a thaumaturgist is utterly devoted to furthering the
thaumaturgist'’s goals (or the goals of a deity, if the thaumaturgist
worships one).

Almost all thaumaturgists were once clerics, because the first step
on the path of thaumaturgy is making an agreement with a denizen
of the Outer Planes by use of the lesser planar ally spell. But many of

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
 

Tage 6-17: THE THAUMATURGIST

Base Fort Ref will
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save
Ist +0 +0 +0 +2
2nd +1 +0 +0 3
ard +) aa + 3
4th +2 +1 +1 +4
Sth #2 “ 4 +4

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
   
   
  
    
    
    
 
     
    
    
 
 
  
 

the class abilities are useful to arcane spellcasters, so multiclass
cleric/wizards and the occasional cleric/sorcerer arent unheard of

A.thaumaturgist is keenly aware that his unparalleled conjura-
tions are just tools in service of his overall philosophy or deity.
Thus, thaumaturgists often. undertake quests to advance a cause

‘using their abilities to conjure up a strike force of summoned and

called creatures at a moment's notice.
Hit Die: dé,

Requirements

‘To qualify to become a thaumaturgist, a character must fulfill all
the following criteria,

Feats: Spell Focus (conjuration

Spells: Able to cast leser planar ally

« Class Skills
The thaumaturgist’s class skills (and the key ability
for each skill) are Concentration (Con), Craft
(Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Knowledge (religion,
S (Int), Knowledge (the planes) (Int), Pro-
fession (Wis), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak
Language (none), and Spellcraft (Int). See
Chapter 4 of the Player's Handbook for skill
descriptions.
Skill Points at Each Level: 2 + Int modi

 

fier.

Class Features
All of the following are features.of the thau-
maturgist prestige class
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Thau-
maturgists gain no proficiency with
any Weapon or armor.
Spells per Day: Whena
new thaumaturgist level
is gained, the charac
ter gains new. spells
per day as if he had
also gained a level
in whatever spell-
casting class he be-
longed to before he
added the prestige
class, He does not, how-
ever, gain any other benefit
a character of that class would have
gained (bonus metamagic or item creation
feats, bard or assassin abilities, and so on), This essentially means
that he adds the level of thaumaturgist to the level of whatever
other spellcasting class the character has, then determines spells
per day and caster level accordingly.

If a character had more than one spelicasting class before he
became. thaumaturgist, he must decide to which class he adds each
level of thaumaturgist for the purpose of determining spells per day.

Improved Ally: A thaumaturgist is adept at convincing crea
tures from other planes to do his bidding. When a thaumaturgist
casts a planarally spell (including the lesser and greater versions), he
kes a Diplomacy check to convince the creature to aid him for

A thanmaturgist

 

Spells per Day

+1 level of existing spelicasting class
+1 level of existing spellcasting class
+1 level of existing spelicasting class
+1 level of existing spelicasting class.

Special
Improved ally

Augment Summoning
Extended summoning
Contingent conjuration

Planar cohort +1 level of existing spelicasting class
ee: em
ae ee ee eee Rt 2
