a reduced payment. If the thaumaturgist's Diplomacy. check
adjusts the creature's attitude to helpful (see Influencing NPC
Attitudes, page 72 of the Player's Handbook), the creature svill work
for 50% of the standard fee, as long as the task is one that is not
against its nature, For example, a 1st-level thaumaturgist negotiat-|
ing with an initially friendly planar ally that gets a Diplomacy,
check result of 15 can convince a 6 HD creature to perform a7-|
\hour task for only 1,500 gp per hour (a.6 HD creature would ordi-|
narily ask for 3,000 gp per hour). 4

The thaumaturgist’s improved ally class feature only works when |
the planar ally shares at least one aspect of alignment with the thau-
maturgist. A thaumaturgist.can have only one such ally at a time,
but he may bargain for tasks from other planar allies normally.

Augment Summoning: At 2nd level, a thaumarurgist gains the
Augment Summoning feat (see page 89 of the Player's Handbook).

Extended Summoning: At 3rd level and higher, all spells
from the summoning subschool that the thaumaturgist casts have
their durations doubled, as if the Extend Spell feat had been}
applied to them. The levels of the summoning spells don't change, |
however. This ability stacks with the effect of the Extend Spell,
feat, which does change the spell’s level. }

Contingent Conjuration: A 4th-level thaumaturgist can pre-
pare a summoning or calling spell ahead of time to be triggered by
some other event. This functions as described for the contingency
spell, including having the thaumaturgist cast the summoning or
calling spell beforehand. The spell is cast instantly when the trig-
ger event occurs. For example, a thaumarurgist could use the con-
tingent.conjuration ability to summon.a barbed devil the next
time he is attacked, or call a ghaele eladrin to act as messenger if
the king falls ill.

The conditions needed to bring the spell into effect must be
clear, although they can be general. If complicated or convoluted
condition as are prescribed, the contingent conjuration may fail
when triggered. The conjuration spell occurs based solely on the
stated conditions, regardless of whether the thaumarurgist wants it
to, although most conjurations can be dismissed normally. A thau-
maturgist.can have only one contingent. conjuration active ata time.

Planar Cohort: A Sth-level thaumaturgist can use any_of the,
planar ally spells to call a creature to act as his cohort. The called |
creature serves loyally and well as long as the thaumaturgist con-}
tinues to advance a cause important to the creature, For example,a,
sth-level thaumaturgist could use planar ally to call a bralani
eladrin to act as his cohort. As long as the thaumaturgist under-
takes quests and missions to fight evil and uphold good, the
eladrin will loyally serve, To calla planar cohort, the thaumaturgist
must cast. the relevant spell, paying the XP costs normally. It makes
an offering of 1,000 gp x the HD of the creature to convince it to
serve as.a planar cohort, and the improved ally class feature can't

|be used to reduce or eliminate this cost. The planar cohort cant

have more Hit Dice than the thaumaturgist has, and must have an
ECL no higher than the thaumaturgist’s character level -2, A
bralani eladrin has an ECL of 11 (6 Hit Dice and +5 level adjust-
ment), so it might serve as.a planar cohort to an Sth-level cleric/
Sth-level thaumaturgist (character level 13th),

A thaumarurgist can haye only one planar cohort at a time, but
he can continue to make agreements with other called creatures
normally. A planar cohort replaces a thaumaturgist's existing
cohort, if he has one by virtue of the Leadership feat (page 106).

DESIGNING PRESTIGE CLASSES
Some of the best prestige classes are the ones you design yourself
jfor-your. own. campaign. Ideally, a prestige class you design your-
\self is tied to.an organization or culture in the campaign world. For
example, if the PCs are involved in a struggle with a citadel of evil
called the Black Tower, then a “Mage of the Black Tower" prestige
class is a. good way to give the villains some unexpected abilities |
and acertain panache. }

There are other roles a prestige class can fill. A prestige class.can,
play off a.race’s strengths (such as the arcane archer), or even trans-|
form a.character into a new race (dragon disciple). They can}
strengthen a character's role within the party (archmage), or his;

jutility in an unusual situation (loremaster), A prestige class.can
demonstrate narrowly focused expertise (such as the thaumatur-
gist) or an unusual combination of abilities (eldritch knight), And

some prestige classes simply define iconic roles in fantasy litera-
ture (such as the assassin) or important groups in a particular cam-;

_paign setting (the Red Wizard).

When you design a prestige class, make sure that characters|
must be at least Sth level before they can meet the entry require-
ments. Specific feats, skill ranks, and base attack bonuses. make
good entry.requirements. You can also add in-game requirements,
such as “must survive being buried alive” or “must drink from.the.
silver chalice atop the Great Glacier” Dont require levels ina spe-

{cific class, minimum ability scores, or minimum hit points to.qual-
ify for a prestige class. ;

Make your prestige class as specifica possible, because youre.

idesigning it for your campaign, not everyone’ D&D game. The

“Dawnstrider of Pelor” prestige class will be remembered long
after a “holy warrior” prestige class has been forgotten,

The rules in the Player's Handbook assume that characters have access.

to everything they need to advance in level—libraries where they.,
can research new. spells, trainers to guide their efforts, and places to}
practice new skills and abilities, Research and training arent a part,
of the standard rules, They're assumed to be going on_in the back-

ground. However, youcontrol the background and can decide how}
you want to handle things such as this. Keep in mind, however, that,
leaving them in the background isa fine choice. }

LEARNING SKILLS AND FEATS

According to the rules in the Player's Handbook, characters pick up
new skills and feats as they go up in levels. In your campaign. how-
ever, you can require that a character cant learn.a new skill or feat
that he hasn't been exposed to. For example, a character in the
desert can't learn swimming unless he spends time at an oasis. You
might decide that a character cant even improve existing skills
without the ability and opportunity to.practice.

One step further would be to require that a character have an
instructor to teach him new skills and feats. Under this approach,
a character cant learn to swim unless he has access to a body of
water and someone who can swim willing to train him. Likewise,
a character cant learn the Cleave feat unless he's got a trainer who
knows howto doit and the timeanda place to practice by sparring
with that trainer. A trainer can be another PC (which encourages
interaction and cooperation among the players) or an NPC. Non-
player character trainers who are friends of the PCs might train
them for nothing: otherwise, professional trainers, who are usu-
ally found only in large cities, charge money.

Training Cost: 50 gp per week for a professional trainer (plus
related expenses).

Training Time: One week per rank gained in a skill, or two
weeks for a feat. A character may work on two skills or feats.at.
once, paying separately for each. 4

Ifa single trainer is providing instruction in more than.one|
discipline, then the skills or feats in question should have some)
sort of connection. For example, a certain trainer might be capa-|
ble of reaching both Mounted Archery and Ride-By Attack, since|
the feats are closely related (they even have the same prerequi-/

sites), Likewise, a single trainer might be found for Diplomacy

and Intimidate, since those skills are both tied to Charisma and
involve the same type of activity. (getting someone else to do what
you want). It would be less likely to find one trainer for both

 
