CREATING PCS
___ABOVEAST-LEVEL

Sometimes you're going to want to create characters that arent ist
level. Perhaps you have purchased an adventure you're dying 10;
play, but no one has characters of the appropriate level. Perhaps}
|you just want to jump right to Sth level and start your campaign)
ithere, Whatever the reason, creating new characters at any given)
level isn't hard (and, in fact, many players find it fun). 4

If you tell players to create characters of higher than 1st level,
assign an experience point total for them to use. Doing this is
better than just assigning alevel because it balances characters
who take multiclass penalties against those who do not. Then the
players should follow these steps.

1. Determine ability scores normally.

2, Determine race and class. If the character is multiclass, deter-
mine how many levels of each class the character has, and in what},

vorder they were gained. (The order is important in step 3.) 4

3, Determine character statistics. This includes base attack bo-,
nus, save bonuses, spells, abilities, feats, hit points (maximum hp
at 1st level and rolled hp for each level afterward). If the characters
are 4th level or higher, allow each to add 1 point to an ability score
at 4th level and every four levels beyond that (see Table 3-2: Expe-
rience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22 of the Player's Hand
book). It is important to note if Intelligence gets modified, because
ja raised Intelligence score might gain the character more skill
points, buronly at that level and beyond. (Thatis, extra skill points
are not retroactive.)

4, Determine skills. The best way.to do this is to buy them one

Jevel at a time. This allows a player to take into account increased
skill points from. Intelligence (if any) and changes due. to multi-
jclassing. However, if a character's skill points per level do not
\change (such as when she puts the ability, score boost into some
ability other than Intelligence) and no multiclassing is involved,
the player can buy all the character's skills at once. In either case,
keep in mind that maximum rank in.a skill is level + 3 for class
skills and (level + 3) + 2 for cross-class skills.

5. Equip the character. When creating a ist-level character, this |
means buying normal equipment. At higher levels, it also means|
deciding which magic items a character has acquired so far. Refer,
to Chapter 7: Magic Items, where all magic items are listed along
with their market prices. Table $1; Character Wealth by Level
(page 135) shows the total value of a player character's gear at a
given Jevel, This value includes mundane items described in
Chapter Z.of the Player's Handbook, but the bulk of it, especially at
higher levels, is composed of magic items, See Magic Items as
Gear, below, for advice on how to govern what sort of magic items
aPC can buy with this wealth. Nore that these values apply only to

\player.characters. NPCs_use Table 4~23; NPC Gear Value (page
127)to find the total yalue.of their equipment.

6. Work out the details. A paladin needs a warhorse, a druid or
experienced ranger needs animal companions, a wizard might
want a familiar, a character might belong to a guild or have a
cohort, and so.on.

Magic Items as Gear
You're free to limit what magic items characters can choose when
they create characters of higher levels, just.as if you were assign-
.ing those items to treasure hoards in.the game. You can exercise
jan item-by-item veto, but an easier method is to use maximum,
icost for a single item.as.alimit. For example, while an sth-level
\character has 27,000 gp to spend, you can limit him to owning no
[single item worth more than one-quarter of that, or 5,500 gp. This
is a good way to prevent imbalances such as an Sth-level fighter
with hardly a. copper piece to his name who is armed with a nine}
lives stealer.

You could alse limit characters toa certain type of magic item, For,
example, a player creating a 3rd-level character has 2,700 gp to spend, |
uryou could rule that she can only equip the character with aminor |
magic item (one that.could be obtained by a roll on the "Minor" |

,column of one of the random generation tables in Chapter 7).

Character-Created Magic Items: A PC spellcaster created ata

jlevel higher than 1st.can use any of the XP and gp you have

awarded to make magic items, provided that she has the proper
item creation feats and prerequisites.
Charged Magic Items: A player may select a partially used

[magic item for part of his character's starting geat. Such an item’,

value is proportional to the charges left compared to the charges.
in a newly created item (half price for a wand with 25 charges, 20%.
of full price for a wand with 10 charges, and.so on). ,
Limited Use Items: If you're playing a one-shot random dun-;
geon, one-use items cost 5 times their normal price. and charged

items have 1/5 as many charges. In a one-shot adventure, in which
Lit doesn't matter whether you use up your items, one-use and

2 The leader is.immune.to the dragonne's.roar,

charged items are a lot better than they are in a regular campaign.

Ina one-shot dungeon, a one-use item is as good as a 1/day item
because you'll be able to use each item once. This “S times” rule
balances the one-use and charged items.so.they dont dominate,
the random dungeon.

If you're bringing an existing character into a one-shot dun-
geon, “trade in" your one-use items for other one-use items at 5
times the cost. For items with charges, give them 1/5 as many.
charges as normal,

 

With the DMS permission, a leader may seek out aspecial cohort
who is not a member of the standard PC races (the common races),
For creatures with classes, such as a lizardfolk cohort, calculate its,
level according to the rules for PCs of that kind of monster (see
Monsters as Races, page 172). For example, a leader with a Leader-
ship score of 8 could have a Sth-level human fighter as a.cohort, or
a lizardfolk with two fighter levels, or a bugbear with one fighter
level. For more unusual creatures, add at least +3 to a creature's
Challenge Rating to determine its effective level. The more special
abilities a creature has, the larger the number you should add. See
the table below for some example special cohorts. Note that evil
special cohorts may have agendas of their own.

   

Creature Alignment Level Equivalent
Blink dog Lawful good 6th
Lammasu. Lawful good 12th
Werebear (lycanthrope) Lawful good 10th
Avoral (guardinal) Neutral good 15th
Bralani (eladrin) Chaotic good Mth
Pegasus Chaotic good. 6th
Unicorn’ Chaotic good 8th
Griffon Neutral 10th
Dragonne? Neutral 10th
Satyr Chaotic neutral 7th
Hell hound Lawful evil 7th
Displacer beast Lawful evil 10th.
Imp (devil) Lawtul evil 7th
Young green dragon’ Lawful evil 16th
Erinyes (devil) Lawful evil 16th
Quasit (demon) Chaotic evil Sth
Ettin Chaotic evil Sth

1 Leader must.be a human, elf..or half-elf maiden,

13 The dragon ages but does not gain XP..

The effective character level (ECL) of a creature determines
how powerful it is as a character or a cohort. The Monster Manual

 
