contains statistics and other details on potential cohorts. Take the
level adjustment plus the Hit Dice to generate ECL.

Using the numbers given in the Monster Manual, we find that an
ettin, which is a 10 HD creature with.a+5 level adjustment, is the
equivalent of a 15th level character or cohort. If you add a tem-|
plate, add the remplare’s level adjustment, too. For instance, the |.

(fiendish creature template (see page 107.of the Monster Manual) )
yhas.a level adjustment of +2. A fiendish ettin would be a 17th-level.
\cohort. That's all there is to it, 4

You should carefully consider any special attacks or qualities,

that.a potential cohort possesses.and may choose to disallow or |
\make ad hoc adjustments.to suit, your. campaign.

Ifa creature in the Monster Manual doesnt have a level adjust-
ment, this means we donit recommend using it as either a player
character or a cohort. The dryad is a good example; she’s connected
to her tree and as such has very limited mobility. Mindless or low-

Intelligence creatures also make undesirable cohorts,

LEADERSHIP AND MOUNTS {
\Acharacter may use the Leadership feat to attract a cohort that can,
serve as a mount. This feat cannot attract a mount with an Intelli-
gence of less than 4, If such a character already has a special
mount, familiar, or animal companion, he takes a~—2 penalty to his

Leadership score,

PALADIN COHORT MOUNTS

{Ac the DM's option, she may allow a paladin or other character
jwith a special mount class feature to. combine the special mount
with the cohort feat. The special qualities such as.the empathic
link and shared spells make this quite potent and worth a mini-
jmum of a +2 level adjustment to the cohort mount ECL.

CONTINGENT COHORTS

| What can a. DM do if the number of players in her group is irregu-

Jar? Sometimes a cohort is a much-needed addition to a party;
sometimes it’s one character too many, A DM might work with
her players to allow contingent cohorts.

For instance, the DM may have between three to seven players.
show up at any one game. Suppose she likes a group of five to
seven best. She may rule that the Leadership feat isn't always,
active, The player selecting the Leadership feat also chooses.an,
alternate feat. (This alternate feat. cannot function as the prerequi-
site for any other feat. Improved Initiative is a fine alternate feat.)
The DM may declare that if the number of players is less than five,
characters who took the Leadership feat may bring along their
cohorts. 1f the number of players is five or more, players who took
the Leadership feat cant bring their cohorts, but instead gain the
benefits of their alternate fear for the session.

This can work out very amiably if the contingent cohort condi-
}tions are clarified before the DM allows the character to take the
Leadership fear.

_——————_ FAMITIARS

Few investments yield greater riches than the time and gold spent
to acquire a familiar. A lifelong companion, guard, spy, and ser-
vant, it is every spellcaster’s best friend and most trusted confi-
dante. Changes to the rules on familiars in the Player's Handbook
are completely under the DM's. control. Here are some possibili-
,ties, beginning with the Improved Familiar variant feat.

     
  
    
 

Iproved Familiar [General]
{This feat allows spellcasters to acquire a new familiar from a non-
\standard list, but only when they could normally acquire a new.
familiar (see page 52 of the Player's Handbook).

Prerequisites: Ability to acquire a new familiar, compatible,
alignment, sufficiently high level (see below). j

Benefit: When choosing a familiar, the creatures listed below
are also available to the spellcaster. The spellcaster may choose a,
familiar with an alignment up to one step away on each of the!
alignment axes. (lawful through chaotic, good through evil). For

\example, a chaotic good spellcaster could acquire a neutral familiar.
TA lawful neutral spelicaster could acquire a neutral good familiar.

 

Arcane Spelicaster
Fami Alignment Level
Shocker lizard Neutral Sth
Stirge Neutral Sth
Formian worker Lawful neutral 7th
Imp Lawful evil 7th
Pseudodragon Neutral good 7th
Quasit Chaotic evil 2th.

Improved familiars otherwise use the rules on page 52 of the Player’

| Handbook, with two exceptions: If the creature's type is something.
jother than animal, its type. does not change; and improved familiars .
ido not gain the ability to speak with other creatures of their kind

(although many of them already have the abiliry to. communicate)

The list in the table above presents only_a few possible
improved familiars. Almost any.creature of the same general size
and power.as those on the list makes a suitable familiar. Nor is the
master’s alignment the only possible categorization. For instance,
improved familiars could be assigned by the master’s creature type
or subtype, as shown below.

Arcane Spellcaster
Familiar Type/Subtype Level }
Celestial hawk! Good 3rd
Fiendish Tiny viper.snake*___ Evil 3rd
Ait elemental, Small Air Sth
Earth elemental, Small Earth Sth.
Fire elemental, Small Fire Sth
Shocker lizard Electricity Sth.
Water elemental, Small Water Sth
Homunculus? Undead 7th
Ice mephit Cold 7th

1 Or other celestial animal from the standard familiar list.

2 Or other fiendish animal fromthe standard familiar list.

3 The. master must first.create the homunculus, substituting ichor or
another part of the master’s body for blood if necessary.

The following statistics assume a master of the minimum required
level with no additional class or race bonuses to attack rolls or
saving throws,

Granted Abilities: In addition to their own special qualities,
all familiars grant their masters the Alertness feat, the benefit of
an empathic link, and the ability.to share spells with the familiar,
See page 53.0f the Players Handbook for details.

Improved Evasion (Ex): When subjected to an attack that nor
mally allows « Reflex saving throw for half damage, a familiar
takes no damage if it makes a successful saving throw and half
damage even if the saving throw fails,

Celestial Hawk Familiar: CR —; Tiny magical beast, HD 3; hp
1/2 master's; Init +3; Spd 10 ft, fly 60 ft, (average); AC 19, touch 15,
flat-footed 16; Base Atk +0; Grp -10; Atk +5 melee (1d4~2, talons);
Full Atk +5 melee (1d4-2, talons); Space/Reach 2-1/2 ft/0 fi SA|

_smite evil; SQ darkvision 60 ft,, deliver touch spells, improved eva-)

sion, low-light vision, resistance to acid 5, cold 5, and electricity 5.,
spell resistance 8, granted abilities; AL any good; SV Fort +2, Ref |

1+5, Will +2, Str 6, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 14, Cha 6.

Skillsand Feats: Listen +2, Spot +14; Weapon Finesse.
Smite Evil (Su); Once per day, make a normal melee attack to
deal +1 damage against an evil foe.
