Intelligence modifier (10 + class level up to 10th + 1/2 class
levels above 10th).

For spellcasters, caster Jevel continues.to increase after 20th
level. Thus, a 23rd-level wizard casts.as.a 23rd-level character,
while a 24th-level paladin’s caster level is 12th (one-half her,
class level). However,.a character's spells per day don't increase,
after 20th level.

The powers of familiars, special mounts, and fiendish senants|
continue to increase as their masters gain levels, if they're based |
on a formula that includes the casters level

Any class features that increase_or accumulate as part of a.
repeated pattern (such_as a.rogue's sneak attack or the number
of times per day a barbarian.can rage) also continue to increase
or accumulate after 20th level at the same rate. A 27th-level
rogue adds +14d6 damage to her sneak attacks. A 32nd-level
barbarian can rage nine times per day. An exception to this rule
is_any bonus feat progression granted as a class feature. If a
character gets bonus feats as part of a class feature (such as the,
feats gained by fighters and wizards), these do not increase with |
epic levels. Instead, these classes get a new bonus feat progres-.
sion (described in each class summary below),

In addition to the class features retained from lower levels, each”
class gains a bonus feat every two, three, four, or five levels after
20th. This benefit augments each class's progression of class
features, because not all classes otherwise improve class
features after 20th level. These bonus feats are in. addition to the
feat that every character gets every three levels (as per Table
3-2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22 of the
Player's Handbook).

A character doesn't gain any new.class features beyond 20th
level. Class features with a progression thatslows or stops
before 20th level (such as the monk’ unarmed damage) and
features that have a limited list of options (such.as.the rogue’s
special abilities) do not improve as a character attains epic level.
Likewise, class features thar are gained only.at a single level
(such asa barbarian’s fast movement) do not improve.

Adding a Second Class
When an epic character with levels in only one class attains. anew
level, she may choose to increase the level of her current class or
pick up a new class at 1st level. The standard rules for multiclass-_
ing in the Player's Handbook (page 59) still apply, but epic characters
must keep in mind the rules for epic advancement.

An epic character gains the class skills, weapon proficiency,
armor proficiency, spells, and other class features of the new)
class, as well as.a Hit Die of the appropriate size. In addition, the |
character gets the usual skill points from the new class. Just.as!
with standard multiclassing, adding the second class does.not

{confer some of the benefits fora 1st-level character, including
\maximum hit points from the first Hit Die, quadruple the per-
level skill points, starting equipment, starting gold, or an animal
companion. +

An epic character does not gain the base attack bonuses and base.
save bonuses normally gained when adding a second class. Instead,_
the character uses the epic attack bonus and epic save bonus pro-
gression shown on Table 6-18: Epic Save and Epic Attack Bonus.

EPIC BARBARIAN

‘An epic barbarian is a terror to behold. The very incarnation of
jrage, this furious warrior can cut his opponents to ribbons with
jawe-inspiring ease.

Hit Die: di2.

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 4 + Int modifier,

Barbarian Rage: The epic barbarian gains one use of rage per,
day every four levels higher than 20th (2/day at 24th, 8/day at
28th, and so on).

Trap Sense (Ex): The epic barbarian's bonus increases. by +1
every three levels higher than 18th (+7 at 21st,+8.at 24th, and so on),

Damage Reduction (Ex): The epic barbarians damage reduc-
tion increases by 1 point every three levels higher than 19th (6/—|
at 22nd, 7/—at.25th,and so on), }

Bonus Feats: The epic barbarian gains a bonus fear every four)
levels higher than 20th (24th, 28th, and so on).

EPIC BARD

An epic bard's music.can move even the cruelest, most soulless.
creature, or inspire his allies to the heights of power and bravery.

Hit Die: dé,

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier.

Spells: The bard's caster level is equal to his.class level. The
bard's number of spells per day does not increase after 20th level.
The bard does not learn additional spells.

Bardic Music: The bard gains no new bardic music effects
from his Perform ranks.

Bardic Knowledge: Add the bard's class level + Intelligence
modifier to all bardic knowledge checks, as normal.

 

i a SS RAS SES RN

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

A LIMIT TO ATTACKS AND SAVES

Why don't base attack bonus and base save bonus increase after 20th
level? Ultimately, these are game play issues.

If base attack bonuses continued to increase, every character would
‘eventually have so many attacks per round that the game would slow to
a crawl, What's worse, only the first few attacks would be significant,
because the dropoff in attack bonuses means that later attacks have
almost no chance to hit. For this reason, the rules establish a cap on a
character's base attack bonus, because the base attack bonus deter-
mines the number of attacks per round a character can make. After 20th
level, your base attack bonus never improves. You gain epic bonuses
and other bonuses on your attack roll, but these don't ever increase
your base attack bonus and thus never grant you additional attacks.

This limit doesn't apply to the base attack bonus derived strictly
from a monster's Hit Dice. For instance, a titan with 21 HD using the
advancement rules in the Monster Manual has a base attack bonus of
+21. Thus, another cap exists; A high base attack bonus never grants a
creature more than four attacks with any given weapon using the full
attack option. Other effects (such as weapons with the speed special

   

ability, certain feats, and class abilities such as the monk's special
unarmed attack progression) may grant additional actions or attacks
that exceed this limit. But regardless of how high a creature's base
attack bonus gets, it can never make more than four attacks with that
weapon using a full attack action.

The limit to the base saving throw bonuses is also a game play issue.
Saving throw bonuses up to 20th level progress at different rates
("good” vs. “poor” saves; see Table 3-1 on page 22 of the Player's
Handbook). If that progression were allowed to continue, the difference
between a character's base save bonuses will eventually grow so great
that two different situations with the same save DC would present two
threats of wildly differing magnitude. The difference between the good
and poor saving throw bonuses for a 60th-level character, for example,
would be 12 points (+32 versus +20). Add in the bonuses from high abil-
ity scores and magic items that a character probably has, and you can
expect the gap to widen further. This leads to situations where a charac-
ter might succeed on a given Fortitude save with a result of 2 or higher,
but might require a 20 to succeed on a Reflex save with the same DC, For
this reason, base save bonuses don't increase after 20th level, although
the epic save bonus increases at a fixed rate for all epic characters.

 
