 

Bonus Feats: The epic bard gains a bonus feat every three
levels higher than 20th (23rd, 26th, and so on).

Inspire Courage (Su); The epic bard's bonus when this ability
is used increases by +1every six levels higher than 20th (26th,
32nd, and so on),

EPIC CLERIC 1
Una typical world, the epic cleric stands as.one of his deity’ most,
\elite servants. In an adventuring party, he must also stand as.the|
,solid center of the group, providing power and assistance. to his.

companions.
Hit Die: ds,
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + Int modifier.
Spells: The cleric’s caster level is equal to his class level. The
cleric’s number of spells per day does not increase after 20th level,
Turn or Rebuke Undead: Use the cleric’s class level to deter-
smine.the most_powerful undead affected by a turn or rebuke
\check and the rurning damage, just as normal. 4

|_Bonus Feats: The epic cleric gains a bonus feat every three |.

Hlevels higher than 2oth (23rd, 26th, and so on),
EPIC DRUID

The epic druid is a mighty symbol of the power of the natural
world, able to focus the primal forces of the elements to do her
bidding.

Hit Die: ds.

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 4 + Int modifier.
|Spells: The druid's caster level is.equal.to her class level. The
\druid's number of spells per day does not increase after 20th level.

Animal Companion: The druid may_have a maximum
jnumber of animal companions equal to. twice her class level, as
\normal.

Wild Shape (Su): The druid can use this ability to take the
|form of an animal one additional time per day every four levels

higher than 18th (7/day at 22nd, 8/day at 26th, and so on). The
druid’ ability to wild shape into an elemental does not improve.

Bonus Feats: The epic druid gains a bonus feat every four

levels higher than 20th. 1

EPIC FIGHTER }
The epic fighter is a combat machine, a master of more battle
maneuvers than any other character in the game. More than a
mere sword-swinger, the epic fighter knows how to best his oppo-
nents in any arena.

Hit Die: d10.

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + Int modifier,

Bonus Feats; The epic fighter gains a bonus feat every two
levels higher than 20th (22nd, 24th, 26th, and so on).

EPIC MONK

The epic monk has achieved an inner tranquility that lesser char-
acters can't even dream of Her speed, power, grace, and force of
will are unmatched by mortal beings.

Hit Die: ds,

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 4 + Int modifier

AC Bonus (Ex): The monk's bonus to Armor Class when unar-
mored increases by +1 every five levels higher than 20th (+5 at
25th, +6 at 30th, and so on).

Unarmed Strike: The damage fora monk's unarmed strike
«does not increase after 16th level.

Stunning Attack: Use the monk’ class level when determin-
ling the DC to resist this attack, as normal.

Unarmored Speed Bonus: The epic monk’s speed when wear-
jing no armor increases by 10 feet every three levels higher than.
18th (+20.ft. at 21st, +80 ft. at 24th, and so on).

Ki Strike (Su): The monk's ki strike ability does not automati-,
cally.increase with class level after 16th level.

EPIC ROGUE

i The epic rogue is a trickster and a thief, a trap~ detector and a

Wholeness of Body (Su): The epic monk can cure up to.nwice
her class level in hit points each day, as normal.

Abundant Step (Su): Use the monk's class level when deter-
mining the effective caster level of this ability, as normal,

Diamond Soul (Ex): The epic monk’ spell resistance is equal

{to her class level +10, as normal.

Quivering Palm (Su): Use the monk's class level when deter-
mining the DC to resist.this attack, as normal.

Empty Body (Su): Use the monk's class level when determin-
ing the duration of this effect, as normal. ;

Bonus Feats: The epic monk gains a bonus feat every five}
levels higher than 20th (25th, 30th, and soon).

EPIC PALADIN

‘The epic paladin stands at the forefront of the battle against chaos.
and evil in the world, shining as a beacon of hope so all who fight

the good fight.

Hit Die: dio.

_Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + Int modifier,

Lay on Hands (Su): Each day the epic paladin can cure a rotal
number of hit points equal to her Charisma bonus (if any) times
her class level, as normal.

Smite Evil (Su); The epic paladin adds herclass level ro damage
with any smite evil attack, as normal. She can.smite one.additional
time per day for every five levels higher than 20th (6/day at 25th,
7/day at 30thand so on)

Turn Undead (Su): The paladin turns undead as.acleric of two.
levels lower, as normal. +

Spells: The paladin’s caster level is equal to one-half her class |
level, as normal. The paladin'’s number of spells per day does not,
increase after 20th level.

Special Mount: The epic paladin’ special mount continues 10,
increase in power. Every five levels higher than 20th (25th, 30th,
35th, and so on), the special mount gains +2 bonus Hit Dice, its
natural armor increases by +2, its Strength adjustment increases
by +1, and its Intelligence increases by +1. The mount's spell resist-
ance equals the paladin’s class level + 5

Remove Disease (Sp): The epic paladin can use remove disease one
additional time per week for every three levels higher than 18th
(7/week at 21st, 8/week at 24th, and so on),

Bonus Feats: The epic paladin gains a bonus feat every three
levels higher than 20th (23rd, 26th, 29th, and so on).

EPIC RANGER

Whether cunning protector of the wild or cold-blooded hunter of
the weak, the epic ranger is one with the wilderness, moving with
deadly grace and keen mind through the natural world.

Hit Die: ds.

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier

Spells: The ranger’s caster level is equal to one-half his class
level, as normal. The ranger's number of spells per day does not
increase after 20th level.

Favored Enemy (Ex): The epic ranger gains one additional
favored enemy, and his bonuses against one category of favored
enemies go up by +2, every five levels higher than 20th (6th
enemy at 25th, 7th enemy at 30th, and so on).

Bonus Feats: The epic ranger gains a bonus feat every three.
levels higher than 20th (23rd, 26th, and so on),

tale-spinner. Her skills are legendary.and her tales of derring-do!
even more so, If you listen to the stories, there's nothing she,
cant.do,

Hit Die: dé,

_Skill Points.at Each Additional Level: 8 + Int modifier,

Sneak Attack: The epic rogue's sneak attack damage increases
