 

Improved Favored Enemy [Epic]
Prerequisites: Five or more favored enemies,
Benefit: Add +1 to the bonus on Bluff, Listen, Sense Motive,
Spot, and Survival checks and damage rolls againstall your
favored enemies.

Special: This feat may be taken multiple times. Its effects stack.)

Improved Metamagic [Epic]

|You.can cast spells using metamagic feats more easily than normal.

Prerequisites: Four metamagic feats, Spellcraft 30 ranks,

Benefit: The spell slot you must.use.to cast a metamagic spell is)
jong level lower than normal (to. aminimum of one level higher than
.normal), For instance, you could cast a quickened spell as a spell of
three levels higher than normal rather than four levels higher.

‘This feat has no effect on.a metamagic feat that requires a spell
slot one level higher than normal or does not require a higher-

evel slot.

‘Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack,
\though you can't lower the level of any metamagic spell’s slot to

Hless than one level higher than normal.

Improved Sneak Attack [Epic]
Your sneak attacks are more deadly than normal.
Prerequisite: Sneak attack +8d6.
Benefit; Add +1d6 to your sneak attack damage.
Special: This feat may be taken multiple times, Its effects stack.

Improved Spell Capacity [Epic]

\You can prepare spells that exceed the normal limits of spell-
\casting.

| Prerequisite: Ability to cast spells of the normal maximum
|spell level in at least one spellcasting class,

|_Benefit: When you select this feat, you gain one spell slot per
{day of any level up to one level higher than the highest level spell
you can already cast in a particular class, For example, if a 21st
level wizard selected this feat, she would gain one wizard spell slot
of any level upto 10th. The character must have the requisite abil-

ity score (10+ spell level) in order to cast.a spell stored in such a,
slot. If the character has a high enough ability modifier to gain)
‘one or more bonus spells for this spell level, she also gains those}

bonus spells for this spell level.

This feat can't grant spellcasting ability to a class thar doesnt.
have spelleasting ability. A character must use the spell slot in a
class of which she can already cast the maximum normal spell
level. (For instance, a Sth-level ranger/22nd-level sorcerer
couldnt add a ranger spell slot, because she can't cast the maxi-
mum normal spell level for ranger. She must add the spell slot to

,her sorcerer spells.)
| Special: You can gain this feat multiple times.

Improved Stunning Fist [Epic]
Prerequisite: Dex 19, Wis 19, Improved Unarmed Strike,
Stunning Fist
Benefit: Add +2 to the DC of your stunning attack.
This feat may_be.taken.multiple times, Its effects stack,

Lasting Inspiration [Epic]

Your songs.continue to inspire allies long after your words have|
faded.

Prerequisite: Perform (any one) 25 ranks, bardic music class!
feature.
| Benefit: The effects of your bardic music inspiration abilities
{jast for ten times as long as normal after you stop singing. This has
no.effect on inspiration abilities that have no duration after you
stop singing (such as inspire competence).

Qyerwhelming Critical [Epic] }
Choose one type of melee weapon, such as longsword or greataxe.
With that weapon, you do more damage on a critical hit.

Prerequisi Str 23, Cleave, Great Cleave, Improved Critical,

(weapon to be.chosen), Power Attack, Weapon Focus (sveapon.to.,
be chosen).

Benefit: When using the weapon you have selected, you deal
jan extra 1d6 points of damage on a successful critical hit. If the.
weapon's critical multiplier is x3, add an extra 2d6 points of,
[damage instead, and if the multiplier is 4, add an extra 3d6 points

of damage instead. (Creatures immune to critical hits can't be
affected by this feat.

Special; You can gain this feat multiple times, Its effects do not

stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies toa new.type of weapon.

 

Planar Turning [Epic]
You can turn or rebuke outsiders.

Prerequisites: Wis 25, Cha 25, ability ro 1urn_or rebuke!
undead

Benefit: You can turn or rebuke outsiders as if they were
undead. An outsider has effective turn resistance equal to. half its)
spell resistance (caund down).

If you can turn undead, you turn (or destroy) all evil outsiders
and rebuke (or command) all nonevil outsiders. If you can rebuke
undead, you rebuke (or command) all evil outsiders and rebuke
(or command) all nonevil outsiders.

Spell Knowledge [Epic]
You add two additional arcane spells to your repertoire,

Prerequisites: Ability to cast spells of the maximum normal
spell level of an arcane spelicasting class,

Benefit: You learn nwo new arcane spells of any level up to the
maximum level you can cast. This feat does not grant any addi-
tional spell slots.

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times.

 

Terrifying Rage [Epic]
While inaxage, you panic your opponents.

Prerequisites: Intimidate 25 ranks, rage 5/day.

Benefit; While you are raging, any.enemy that views you must
make a Will save opposed by your Intimidate check or become
panicked (if it has HD less than your character level) or shaken (if
it has HD equal to or up to.twice your character level) for 4d6
rounds. An enemy with Hit Dice greater than twice your character
level is not affected by this feat.

SSS SS — = = =

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:
BUILDING AN EPIC PROGRESSION

The classes of the D&D game are balanced at levels 1st through 20th, but
simply continuing the power escalation of each class beyond 20th level
would eventually imbalance the game system. That's because not all class
features continue to improve or accumulate after 20th level. For example,
many of the monk’s special abilities are gained only at a certain level and

never improve after that point.

That's why every class gets a bonus feat progression in addition to
some class features that do accumulate or improve. For some classes,
such as the fighter, this bonus feat progression is essentially the only
class feature available at epic levels, so it is very rapid (one feat every
other level). For other classes, such as the monk or rogue, this feat
progression is only part of the class's benefits, so it is much slower
(one feat every four levels).

 

 

AE EE Ra ane a e
