  
    
  
   
  
     
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

Reecione store

agic items are the hallmarks of legendary campaign
They are’gleaned from the hoards of
sters, taken from fallen foes, and sometimes crafted
by the characters thems.
coveted of all the sorts of treasure that an adventurer
could hope to find magic items grant abilities to a character that
he could neyer haveiotherwise, of complement his existing capa-
bilities inwondrous ways.Some magic items even have intelli@
gence and gre almost NPCs in their own sight

 

ed mon:

 

he*most valuable and

 

Magic étems ate divided into categories: armor, weapons,po

ions; ringssaeds, scrolls, staffs, wands, and wondrous items In
ddition, some magic ftems are cursed or intelligent. Finally, a
few magicitémsare of such rarity and power that they are ¢on-
sidered to belong to a category of their own: artifacts. Artifactgare
classified in turshas-minor (extremely rare but not one-of-a-Kind
items) or majot (each one unique and extremely potent

Armor and Shields: Magic armor (including shields) offers
improved, magical protection to the wearer. Son
confer abilities beyond a benefit to Armor Class. For instance, #
character wearing a +2 breastplate of etherealness is not only pro-
tected by this magically enhanced armor (#2 enhancement bonus
to AC) but ¢an transform her body into an etheteal form

Weapons: Magic weaponsate created with avaricty of combat
| péwers.and almospalways improve the attackand damage rolls of
sake Wielder as Well: Forexamplo,a 43 frost dwanién waraxe adds +3
toatack rolls and damage rll and aso deals.anaddisionsl 1d
__ points of cold dartiage.
rg Potions; A potion if an aebeareted ith aspell-like effect

that affects only the drinker. Forexample, a potion of gascousform is
a purplish, oily liquid in a frosted glass vial. Ir allows a character to
dissolve into-a wispy mist and float through cracks

  

 

 

  

¢ of these items

 

 

—

 

  

 

    

ay
229 f jewel cay

rare sells & diamond

    

prams 7 my

 

Rings: A ring ig a circular metal band worn on the finger
no more thiin two rings per wearer) that has 4 spell-like

power (oftén @ constantéffect that affects the wearer). A
@ wishes hasthreerubies, cach of which holds the
power needed to'grant the wearer a single wish; while a
ring of mudubtlity can render its wearer inyisiblean unlim:
ited number of times.

Rods: A rod is¥ cepterlike item with 2 special power
unlike thatof any-known spell. The rod of lordly»might, for
example, can transform into various 4 tthe
Pushofa burton, aswell as become a ladder, a battering
ram/and more

Scrolls: A scroll is;a spell magically inscribed onto
paper ot parchment so thar it can be used later. A scroll
of Saving light allows'a cleric to cast searing light once,
as though she had prepared the spell herself, except
that any level-based effects—such as range and
damage—are based on the level of the seroll's creator,
not the user's caster level,

Staffs: Aistaff has a number of different (but
often related) spell effects. For example, a staff of
illumination is a long shaft of-silver, emblazoned
with sunbursts. It has the ability to produce light
in alvatiety.of forms ranging from armild dancing
lights effect tothe strong, bright lighr of a sunburst
spell, Ainewly created staff has 50 charges, and
each use of the staff depletes one or more of those
charges,

Wands: A wand is x short stick imbued with the
power to cast a specific spell. A wand of magic mise
sile is a useful weapon for a wizard or sorcerer. A

ring of

 

  

apo

 

N4aAdS adLdVHO

  
