 

newly created wand has 50 charges, and each use of the wand
depletes one of those charges,

Wondrous Items: These objects include magic jewelry, tools,
books, clothing, and much more. They range from innocuous
items such as a hat of disguise, which allows the wearer to take.on |
the appearance of others, to the monstrous apparitus of Kwalish,.a}
metallic, crablike construction that characters can ride within and}

icontrol. }

 

 

(You should keep all the following information in mind when de:
ing with magic items,

PLACEMENT AS TREASURE

Including magic items as part of a treasure is a vital task of the
DM. Irs. also a delicately difficult one. It can be tempting to hand.
jout powerful or particularly interesting items too soon or too}
joften. (A smaller number of DMs make the opposite mistake.)
tbeing too stingy and handing out too few magic items.) A single,
overpowering item can ruin a whole campaign—but if the PCs
dont get enough magic items, they wont be powerful enough to
deal with the challenges that have been balanced for characters of
their level. The treasure tables (pages 52-53) were designed to
help in this regard (see Random Magic Items, page 216), Occa-
sionally, however, youll want to give your players items you have
jhand-picked as especially suitable for their characters. Feel free to
ido this more and more as you gain.experience as. 2 DM and—
\most important—as you become familiar. with what the items
can and cant do,

Remember that magic items can and probably will be used by
\the NPCs who own them. If an orc chief has.a.+2 longsword in his
jtreasure hoard, most likely he'll use it in thar final bartle with the
LPCs' champion. Creatures such as a. medusa or a lammasu might

be able to.use certain items, such as a necklace of adaptation, and
even a dragon can drink a potion.

APPEARANCE |
Most magic items come into the campaign as treasure found by
the PCs. When they find a new item, you have to describe ito.
them. Describing magic items to the players verbally requires a
little forethought on your part. You don't want to say “You see a +2
short sword and a wand of web on the table.” That gives away too
much information, Presumably, a character cant tell what bonus a
magic weapon has by looking ar it, and cant know a wand’ spell by
its appearance. Even if he or she could identify an item in this way,
that should be because the ability to. do so is something that you

,have consciously decided to incorporate into your game.

You have three approaches to choose from when describing
(magic items.

Magic Items Appear Mundane: Magic items dont look like
anything special. Only detect magic or a suspicious, curious, or lucky

player (see Trial and Error, below) allows a PC to discover that the
stick he's been using as.a backscratcher is really a staff of the magi
The benefit to this approach is that characters are always curiously
examining everything, The drawback is that the characters are
always curiously examining everything, taking a great deal of time
away from the action. You also run.the risk of making magic seem
dull because magic items are nothing special.to look at.

Magic Items Appear Distinctive: Magic items glow, pulse
iwwith power, and are covered in runes, gems, and ornate workman-

jship.tn. this flashy sort of campaign, appearance usually has a
direct relationship to the power of the item. Magic swords glow,
land particularly powerful magic swords (encrusted with gems or
carved entirely from a single pure gemstone) glow particularly
bright. The item's appearance also may be a clue to its powers. AL
wand of burning hands could be carved from cedar or redwood with,

afiery pattern etched into its surface in gold leaf. Boots of speed]
might be stitched with the image of a runner on their sides. The |
benefit of this approach is that magic items always seem grand and |
marvelous, The drawback is that they also become obvious, to.the

point of being ostentatious,

Magic Items Vary in Appearance: Magic items vary greatly in
lappearance, from unremarkable to exotic-looking. (This is the
default method. Magic items described in this chapter were han-

dled in this way.) Sometimes great power lies hidden within,
.modest housing. Other. times, items indicare their function.or,
level of power in obvious ways. This case-by-case approach has the;

benefits and drawbacks of both methods above and allows you.to
focus your level of detail where and when you want to.

IDENTIFYING ITEMS

When PCs find magic items as treasure, they're going to need 10

figure out what to do. The following methods are available to iden-
{tify magic items.

Trial and Error: This is often the first approach that a group of.
{PCs tries once they believe they've found a magic item. It's a fun

part of any game, Without access to spells thar rell what an item ,

does, PCs are free to experiment. This usually entails a PC attempt:
ing to use the item, “I put the ring on and jump.up and down, flap-
ping my arms,” a player might say, If the item happens to be a ring
of jumping, then the experiment (and the good guesswork) should
be rewarded. Or, the character might put the same ring on and ask
if she feels anything, In this case, a DM might say, “You feel light-
headed and your stomach lurches upward,” or even “You feel par-

ticularly light on your feet.” With items that are normally com-}
pletely consumed, allow for minor experimentation. A sip of a,
potion, for example, might be enough to give a charactera tin}

gling sensation and some clue to its function.

Close study of an item might provide some information. A
command word could be etched in tiny letters on the inside of a
ring, or a feathered design might hint that it allows one to fly. In
such a case, a DC 15 (or maybe 20) Search check should reveal
the clue.

You might also permit a character to attempt.a DC 30 Spellcraft
check or Knowledge (arcana) check to determine if she can attune
herself with the item's power or if she remembers reading of it
once in her studies, The PCs may. want to. consult bards, sages, or
high-level spellcasters who might be able to identify items either
through their own spell use, prior knowledge and experience, or
research, They might know some demails or rumors about an item's
history.as well. Such consultants always want something in return
for the information, of course.

Spells: Obviously, the easiest way for characters to discern
whether an object is magical is ro use detect magic. That spell can
also be used to find out a litle about an item. When focused on
an item, it.can determine the school of the spell or spells embed
ded within it, as well as the strength of the aura the item gives off
(based on the caster level). When acharacter uses detect magic on
a magic.item, the information you provide often serves as a clue
to.asmart player for identifying the item. Because of this, always
be.clearabout the school of the spell and the caster level. (See the
detect magic spell description on page 219 of the Player's Handbook
for exact details.)

The identify and analyze dweomer spells provide much more.
information, See their descriptions in the Players Handbook,

DM Explanation: Eventually, you might just break down and)
sell the players what an item is. That's okay, particularly when the.

item provides a bonus on.actions the PC is already raking. The

player of a character using a +2 short sword, for example, eventually |

‘notices the amount that the sword is helping him and can thereby
determine its bonus. Use this option if ir becomes a pain for you to
keep mentally adding +2 to all the character's attack and damage
rolls with that unidentified (to him) item.
