Magic Items and Detect Magic
When detect magic identifies a magic item's. school of magic, this
information refers to the school of the spell placed within the po-
tion, scroll, or wand, or the prerequisite given for the item. The

description of each item provides its aura strength and the school |

it belongs to,

For items you create, if more than one spell is given as a prereq- |
\nisite, use the highest-level spell. If no spells are included in the,

prerequisites, use the following default guidelines

Item Nature School

Armor and protection items Abjuration
Weapons or offensive items Evocation
Bonus to ability score, on skill check, etc. Transmutation

USING ITEMS

To use.a magic item, it must be activated, although sometimes acti-

yation simply means putting a ring on your finger. Some items, |
jonce donned, function constantly, In most cases, using an item)
requires a standard action that does not provoke attacks of oppor-,

tunity. By contrast, spell completion items are treated like spells in.
combat and do provoke attacks of opportunity.

Activating a magic item is a standard action unless the item
description indicates otherwise. However, the casting time of a
spell is the time required to activate the same power in an item,
whether it's ascroll, a wand, or a pair of boots, unless the item

(description specifically states otherwise.

The four ways to activate magic items are described below.

Spell Completion: This is the activation method for scrolls. A
scroll is a spell rhat is mostly finished. The preparation is done for
the caster, so no preparation time is needed beforehand as with
normal spellcasting. All that's left to do is perform the short,
simple, finishing parts of the spellcasting (the final gestures,
words, and so on). To use a spell completion item safely, a charac-
ter. must be of high enough level in the right class to cast the spell
already. Ifhe cant already cast the spell, there's a chance he'll make
a mistake (see Scroll Mishaps, page 238. for possible conse-

quences), Activating a spell completion item is a standard action
and provokes attacks of opportunity exactly as casting a spell daes.|

Spell Trigger: Spell trigger activation is similar to spell com-|
pletion, but it’s even simpler, No gestures or spell finishing is,

needed, just a special knowledge of spellcasting that an appropri-
ate character would know, and a.single word that must be spoken.
This means that if. wizard picks upaspell trigger activation item
(such as a wand ora staff) and that item stores a wizard spell, she
knows how to use it. Specifically, anyone with a spell on his or her
spell list knows how to use a spell trigger item that stores that
spell. (This is the case even for a character. who cant actually cast
{spells, such as a 3rd-level paladin.) The user must still determine
what spell is stored in the item before she can activate it. Activat-
ing a.spell trigger item is.a standard action and does not provoke
attacks of opportunity,

Command Word: If ne activation method is suggested either
in the magic item description or by the nature of the item, assume
that a command word is needed to activate it. Command word
activation means that a character speaks the word and the item
activates. No other special knowledge is needed.

A command word is the key to the items lock, as.it were. It can
be a real word such as “Vibrant,” “Square,” or “Horse,” but when
this is the case, the holder of the item.runs the risk of activating
the item accidentally by speaking the word in normal. conversa-
tion. More often, the command word is some seemingly nonsen-

\sical word, or a word or phrase from an ancient language no longer
\in.common use. Activating a command word magic item is astan-
dard action and does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

Sometimes.the command word to activate an item is written.

 

right on the item. Occasionally, it might be hidden within a pat-,

tern.or design engraved on, carved into, or built into the item,or}
the item might bear a clue to the command word. For example, if}
the. command word is “King,” the item might have the image of a,
crown. etched in its surface. A more difficult version of the same
iclue might be the name of the local king when the item was made.
Lin this case, the character has to. conduct some historical research
to identify the name.

The Knowledge (arcana) and Knowledge (history) skills.
might be useful in helping to identify command words or deci-,

.phering clues regarding them. A successful check against DC 30
is needed to come up with the word itself. If tharcheckis failed,
succeeding on asecond check (DC 25) might provide some
insight into a clue,

The spells identify and analyze dweomer both reveal command.
words.

Use Activated: This type of item simply has to be used in onder
{to activate it. A character has to drink a potion, swing a sword,
Jinterpose a shield to deflect a blow in combat, look through a lens,
sprinkle dust, wear.a.ring, or don a hat. Use activation is generally ,
jstraightforward and self-explanatory.

Many use-activated items are objects thata character wears.
Continually functioning items, such as acloak of resistance or aliead-_
band of intellect,.are practically always items that one wears. A few,
such as a pearl of power, must simply be in the.character's posses-
sion (on his person, not at home in a locked trunk). However,
some items made for wearing. such as a ring of invisibility, must still
be activated. Although this activation sometimes requires a. com-}

{mand word (see above), usually it means mentally.willing the acti-}
vation to happen. The description of an item states whether a com-
mand word is needed in such a case.

Unless stated otherwise, activating a use-activated magic item is|
either a standard action or not an action at all and does not pro:
voke attacks of opportunity, unless the use involves performing an.
action that provokes an attack of opportunity in itself, such as run-
ning out of a threatened square while wearing magic boots. If the
use of the item takes time (such as drinking a potion or putting on
or taking off a ring or hat) before a magical effect.occurs,.then use
activation is a standard action. If the item's activation is subsumed
in its use and takes no extra time (such as swinging a magic sword
that has a built-in enhancement bonus), use activation is not an
action at all.

Use_activation doesnt mean that if you use an item, you auto-
matically know what it can do. Putting on a ring of jumping does
not immediately activate it. You must know (or at least guess) what
the item can do and then use the item in order to activate it, unless
the benefir.of the item comes automatically, such from drinking a
potion or swinging a sword.

SIZE AND MAGIC ITEMS

When an article of magic clothing or jewelry is discovered, most
of the time size shouldn't be an issue, Many magic garments are
made to be easily adjustable, or they adjust themselves magically
to the wearer. As a rule, size should not keep overweight charac-
ters, characters of various genders, or characters of various kinds
from using magic items, Players shouldnt be penalized for choos-
ing a halfling character or deciding that their character is espe-
cially tall.

Only_say “It doesn't fit” if there's a good reason, Cloaks. made,
specifically by the selfish, self-absorbed drow elves might fit only.,
elves Dwarves might make items usable only by dwarf-sized and |

.dwarf-shaped characters to keep their items from being used)
against. them. Such items should be the exceptions, however, not,
«the rule,

Armor and Weapon Sizes: Armor and weapons that are found |
at random have a.30% chance of being Small (01-30), a 60% chance
of being Medium (31-90), and a 10% chance of being any size of
the DM’s choice (91-100),

 
