 
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
     

MAGIC ITEMS ON THE BODY =
Many magic items need to be donned by a character who wants to
employ them or benefit from their abilities, It's possible for.a crea-
ture with a humanoid-shaped body.to wear as many as twelve

magic items at the same time. However, each of those items must,

be worn on (or over) a particular part of the body.

A humanoid-shaped body can be decked out in magic gear con-|
|sisting of one item from each of the following groups, keyed to
[which place on the body the item is worn,

.*One headband, har, helmet, or phylactery on the head

One pair of eye lenses. or goggles.on or over the eyes

One amulet, brooch, medallion, necklace, periapr, or scarab
around the neck

One vest, vestment, or shirt on the torso

One robe or suit of armor on the body (over a vest, vestment, or
shirt)

One belt around the waist (over a robe or suit of armor)

suitof armor)
One pair of bracers or bracelets on the arms or wrists
One glove, pait of gloves, or pair of gauntlets on the hands
One ring on each hand (or two rings on one hand)
One pair of boots or shoes on the feet
Of course, a character may carry or possess as many items of the
same type as he wishes. He can have a pouch full of magic rings,
for example. But he can only benefit from two rings ata time. Ifhe
{puts on a third ring, it doesnt work. This general rule applies to
jother attempts to “double up” on magic items—for instance, if a
|characrer puts on another magic cloak on top of one he is already
}wearing, the second cloak’s power does not work.
Some items, such as a necklace of fireballs, can be worn or carried
\without taking up space on a character's body. The description of
jan.item indicates when an item has this property.

SAVING THROWS AGAINST MAGIC ITEM

POWERS
Magic items produce spells or spell-like effects. Fora saving throw.
against.a spell or spell-like effect from a magic item, the DC is 10+,
the level of the spell or effect + the ability modifier of the mini-|
mum ability score needed to cast that level of spell. For example, a|
2nd-level spell's save DC would be 10+ 2 (for the spell being 2nd,
level) + 1 (for needing at least a.12 in the relevant ability score to
cast a 2nd-level spell), or a total of 13.

Staffs are an exception to.the rule, Treat the saving throw as if
the wielder cast the spell, including caster level and all modifiers
to save DC. For example, if Devis the bard triggers charm. person
from a staff of charming, it will have a save DC of 14 because Devis

-bas a.Charisma of 17, If Mialee the wizard triggers charm person
{from the same staff, ir has a DC of 16 because her Intelligence
score is.18 and she has the Spell Focus (enchantment) feat.

Most item descriptions give saving throw DCs for various
effects, particularly when the.effect has no exact spell equivalent
(making its level otherwise difficult to determine quickly).

DAMAGING MAGIC ITEMS

A magic item doesn't need to. make a saving throw unless it is
unattended, it is specifically targeted by the effect, or its wielder

One cloak, cape, or mantle around the shoulders (over a robe or}

   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 

rolls. a natural 1 on his save. Magic items should always get a,
saving throw against spells that might deal damage to them—|
even against attacks from which a nonmagical item would nor-|
mally get no chance. to save. Magic items use the same saving,
sthrow bonus for all saves, no matter what the type (Fortitude,
Reflex, or Will)..A magic item's saving throw bonus equals 2 +
one-half its caster level (round down), For example, a lantern of
revealing, with a caster level of Sth, has a Reflex save bonus of +4.if
it is caught in a fireball, and a Fortitude save bonus of +4 if some-,
,one attempts to disintegrate it. The only exceprions to this are,
intelligent magic items, which make Will saves based on their}
own Wisdom scores,
Magic items, unless otherwise noted, take damage.as nonmagi-
cal items of the same sort. A damaged magic item continues to,
function, but if it is destroyed, all its magical power is lost. |

REPAIRING MAGIC ITEMS

{Some magic items (especially magic weapons and shields) take
\damage over the course of an adventure. Ir costs no more to repair.
ja magic item with the Craft skill than it does to repair its nonmag-
ical counterpart. The make whole spell also repairs a damaged—but
not completely broken—magic item.

INTELLIGENT ITEMS

Some magic items, particularly weapons, have an intelligence all
their own. Only permanent magic items (as opposed to those with.
a single use or those with charges) can be intelligent. (This means |
ithat potions, scrolls, and wands, among other items, are never |
intelligent.) +
In general, less than 1% of magic items have intelligence. Use|
them sparingly in your campaign, because they require more work |
on the part of both player and DM.
See Intelligent Items, page 268, for more information.

CURSED ITEMS

Some items are cursed—incorrectly made, or corrupted by out-
side forces. Cursed items might be particularly dangerous to the
user, or they might be normal items with a minor flaw, an incon-
venient requirement, or an_unpredictable nature. Randomly gen-
erated items are cursed 5% of the time. If you wish to include
faulty and/or dangerous magic items in your campaign, see
Cursed Items, page 272, for more information.

CHARGES, DOSES, AND MULTIPLE USES
Many items, particularly wands and staffs, are limited in power by
the number of charges they hold. Normally, charged items have 50
charges at most. If such an item is found as a random part of a trea-
sure, roll d% and divide by 2 to. determine the number of charges
left (round down, minimum 1),1f the item has a maximum num-
ber of charges other than 50, roll randomly to determine how.
many charges are left. For example, a random ring of three wishes
has 143 wishes left.

Prices listed are always for fully charged items. (When an item
is created, it is fully charged.) For an item that's worthless when
its. charges run out (which is the case for almost all charged
items), the value of the partially used item is proportional to the.
number of charges left. A wand with 20 charges, for example, is.

 

VARIANT: NEW MAGIC ITEMS
In the same way that you can invent new spells and monsters for your
campaign, you can invent new magic items. In the same way that a PC
spelicaster can research a new spell, a PC may be able to invent a new
kind of magic item, And just as you have to be careful about new spells,
you need to be careful with new ree: items.

Use the magic item descriptions in this chapter as examples on
which to base new magic items. A new magic item needs all the infor-
mation that similar, existing magic items have, possibly including acti-
vation type, activation time, and caster level, You should also be ready
to determine the market value of a new magic item, even one that the
PCs simply find, in case a character wants to sell it or duplicate it.
