worth 40% of the value of a fully charged wand (with so charges).
For an item that has usefulness in addition to its charges, only
part of the item’s value is based on the number of charges left
(DM's discretion),

Some items, such as arrows, sticks of incense, pinches of magic.
dust, and potions, are single-use and expendable. Such items can)
often be found in sets or groups. For example, it's common.to}
jcome upon a pouch with more. than.one handful of dust of disap
|peanance, or a flask with multiple 1-ounce doses of a potion of cure)
light wounds, These are priced and weighted in the random tables}
as single items, but you can allow more of such items when they.
are determined, For example, if three minor magic items are indi-
cated in a treasure hoard and_you get incense of meditation on the
first roll, you might decide that all three items are sticks of
incense. Such placement.makes for mote logical hoards of trea-
sure for adventurers.

In the following sections, each general type of magic item, such as ,
armor or potions, gets an overall description, followed by descrip-
tions of specific items,

General descriptions include notes on activation, random
generation, and other material. The AC, hardness, hit points,
and break DC are given for typical examples of some magic
items, The AC assumes that the item is unattended and includes

\a5 penalty for the item's effective Dexterity of 0. If a creature
tholds the item, use the creature's Dexterity modifier in place of
the -5 penalty.

Some individual items, notably those that simply store spells
and nothing else, don't get full-blown descriptions. Reference the

\spell’s description in the Player's Handbook for details, modified by

the form of the item (potion, scroll, wand, and so.on). Assume that

ithe spell is cast at the minimum level required to cast it, unless you
choose to.make it higher for some reason (which increases the
cost of the item; see Table 7-33: Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece

Values), The main reason to make it higher, of course, would be to

increase the power of the spell. This decision is common for spells,

dependent on level, such as fireball, for which damage is cvery-|
thing, or summon monster, in which duration can increase the powe-|
er of the spell dramatically.

Items with full descriptions have their powers derailed, and.
each of the following topics is covered in notational form at the
end of the description.

* Aura: Most of the time, a detect magic spell will reveal the school
of magic associated with a magic item.and the strength of the
aura.an item emits. This information (when applicable) is given
at the beginning of the item's notational entry in the form of a
phrase such as “Strong transmutation.” See the detect magic spell
description in the Player's Handbook for details.

+ Caster Level: The next item in a_notational entry gives the
caster level of the item, indicating its relative power (just as a
spell’s caster level measures its power). The caster level deter-
mines the item's saving throw bonus, as well as range or other
level-dependent aspects of the powers of the item (if variable).
Ialso determines the level that must be contended with should
the item come under the effect of a dispel magic spell or similar
situation. This information _is given in the form “CL x,” where
*CL’ is an abbreviation for caster level and_“x’ is an_ordinal
number representing the caster level itself.

For potions, scrolls, and wands, the creator can set the caster
Jevel of an item at any_number high enough to cast the stored
spell. and not higher than her own caster level. For example, at
Sth level, Mialee could scribe a scroll of invisibility. at.caster.
level 3rd_(making it last 3 minutes), caster level 4th_(+
minutes), or caster level sth (§ minutes). For other magic}
items, the caster level is determined by the item itself. In this,

MAGIC ITEM NAMES

case,.the creator's caster level must be as high as the item's;

caster level (and prerequisites may effectively put a higher)

minimum on .the creator's level).

« Prerequisites: Certain requirements must be met in order for]

a character to create a. magic item. These include feats, spells,

and miscellaneous requirements such as level, alignment, and

race or kind. The prerequisites for creation of an item are given
immediately following the item's caster level.

A spell prerequisite may be provided by a character who has,
prepared the spell (or who knows the spell, in the case of a
sorcerer or bard), or through the use of a spell. completion or}
spell trigger magic item or a spell-like ability that produces.
the desired spell effect. For each day .that_passes_in_the
creation process, the creator must expend one spell comple-,
tion item (such as a scroll) or one charge from.a spell trigger
item (such as a wand), if either of those objects is used to
supply a prerequisite. al

It is possible for more than one character to cooperate in
the creation of an item, with each participant providing one.or,
more of the prerequisites, In some cases, cooperation may.
even be necessary, such as if one character knows some of the
spells necessary to create_an_ item _and_another character,
knows the rest.

If two.or more characters cooperate 10 create an item, they
must agree among themselves who will be considered the
creator for the purpose of determinations where the creator's
level must be known. (It's generally sensible, although not}
mandatory, for the highest-level character involved to be}
considered the creator.) The character designated as the.cteator |
pays the XP required to make the item

Typically, a list of prerequisites includes one feat and one or
more spells (or some other requirement in addition.to the fear).
When two spells at the end of a list are separated by “or,” one.of |
those spells is required in addition to every. other_spell
mentioned prior to the last two. For example, the prerequisites
for a ring of three wishes are “Forge Ring, wish or minacle,” mean-
ing that either wish or miracle is required as well as.the Forge
Ring feat
* Market Price: This gold piece value, given following the

word “Price,” represents the price someone should expect to
pay to buy the item. The market price for an item that can
be constructed with an item creation feat is usually equal to
the base price plus the price for any components (material
or-XP)..

* Cost to Create: The next part of a notational entry is the cost
in gpand XP to create the item, given following the word
“Cost” This information appears only for items with compo-
nents (material or XP), which make their market prices higher
than their base prices. The cost to create includes the costs
derived from the base cost plus the costs of the components.
Items without components_do not have a “Cost” entry. For
them, the market price and the base price are the same. The cost
in gp.is.1/2 the market price, and the cost in XP is 1/25 the
market price.

*_Weight: The notational entry for many wondrous items ends
with a value for the item's weight. When a weight figure is not
given, the item has no weight worth noting (for purposes of |
determining how much of a load a character can carry).

 

 

|Spell-storing magic items—primarily potions and wands—! have |

names that simply reflect the spell stored within them, such as.aJ
wand of fireball or potion.of haste, In the game world, these may be}

‘replaced by more. sophisticated or evocative. names. The straight-
[forward.names of spell-storing items also distinguish them from
jmore powerful items with more interesting names such as the staff

of power, the robe of the archmagi, ora holy avenger sword.

 
