Fire Resistance, Improved: As fire resistance, except it

absorbs the first 20 points of fire damage per. attack.
Moderate abjuration; CL 7th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
resist energy; Price +42,000 gp.

Fire Resistance, Greater: As fire resistance, except it absorbs ,

the first 30 points office damage per attack.

Moderate abjuration; CL 11th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,)

\resist energy; Price +66,000 gp.

Fortification: This suit of armor.or shield produces a magical)
(force that protects vital areas of the wearer more effectively. When |

a critical hit or sneak attack is scored on the wearer, there is a
\chance that the critical hit or sneak attack is negated and damage
isinstead rolled normally.

Base Price

Fortification Type Chance for Normal Damage Modifier

Light 25% +1 bonus
Moderate 75% +3 bonus |
| Heavy 100% +5 bonus |

Strong abjuration; CL 13th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,

limited wish or minacle; Price varies (see above).

Ghost Touch: This armor or shield seems almost translucent.
Both its enhancement bonus and its armor bonus count against
the attacks of incorporeal creatures. It can be picked up, moved,
and worn by incorporeal creatures at any. time. Incorporeal crea-
tures gain the armor or shield’s enhancement bonus against both

\corporeal and incorporeal attacks, and they can still pass freely
through solid objects.

Strong transmutation; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
stherealness; Price +3 bonus.

Glamered: A suit of armor with this ability appears normal.
Upon command, the armor changes shape and form to assume the
appearance of a normal set of clothing, The armor retains all its
properties (including weight) when glamered. Only a true seeing
spell or similar magic reveals the true nature of the armor when
disguised.

Moderate illusion; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, dis-
guise self; Price +2,700 gp.

Invulnerability: This suit of armor grants the wearer damage.

reduction of 5/magic.

Strong abjuration and perhaps evocation (if mimicle is used); CL
18th; Craft Magic Aums and Armor, stoneskin, wish or miracle; Price
+3 bonus.

Reflecting: This shield seems like a mirror. Its surface is com-
pletely reflective. Once per day, it can be called on to reflect a spell
back at its caster exactly like the spell turning spell.

Strong abjuration; CL 14th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, spell

|turning; Price +5 bonus.

Shadow: This armor is jet black and blurs the wearer whenever
she tries to hide, granting a+5 competence bonus on Hide checks.
(The armor's armor check penalty still applies normally.)

Faint illusion; CL sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, invisibility;
Price +3,750 gp,

Shadow, Improved: As. shadow, except it grants a +10 compe-
tence bonus on Hide checks,

Moderate illusion; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, invis-
ibility; Price +15,000 gp.

Shadow, Greater: As shadow, except it grants a +15 compe~

.tence bonus on Hide checks,

Moderate illusion; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, inwis:
ibility: Price +33,250 gp.

Silent Moves: This armor is well oiled and magically con-

{structed so that it not.only makes little sound, but it dampens.
sound around it, Itprovides a +5 competence bonus on its wearer's

Move Silently checks. (The armor’s armor check penalty still)

applies normally.)

Faint illusion; CL Sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, silence,
Price +3,750 gp. ;

Silent Moves, Improved: As silent moves, except it grants. a.
+10.competence bonus.on Move Silently checks. 4

Moderate illusion; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,

Lsilence; Price +15,000 gp.

Silent Moves, Greater: As silent moves, except it grants a +15
‘competence bonus on Move Silently checks

Moderate illusion; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,,
silence; Price +33,750 gp. 4

Slick: Slick armor seems coated at all times.with aslightly |
greasy oil, It provides a +5 competence bonus on its wearer's
Escape Artist checks. (The armor's armor check penalty still
applies normally.) j

Faint conjuration; CL 4th; Craft Magic Arms.and Armor, grease; ,
Price +3,750 gp.

Slick, Improved: As slick, except it grants a +10 competence

{bonus on Escape Artist checks.

Moderate conjuration; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
grease; Price +15,000 gp.

Slick, Greater: As slick, except it grants.a +15. competence
bonus on Escape Artist checks,

Moderate conjuration; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms.and Armor,
grease; Price.+33,750 gp.

Sonic Resistance: A suit of armor or a shield with this prop-
erty normally has a glistening appearance. The armor absorbs the.
first 10 points of sonic damage per attack that the wearer would |

jnormally take (similar to the resist energy spell). _ 4

Faint abjuration; CL 3rd; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, resist,
energy; Price +18,000 gp.

Sonic Resistance, Improved: As sonic resistance, except it ab-,
sorbs the first 20 points of sonic damage per attack. }

Moderate abjurarion; CL 7th; Craft Magic Arms.and Armor,
resist energy; Price +42,000 gp.

Sonic Resistance, Greater: As sonic resistance, except it
absorbs the first 30 points of sonic damage per attack.

Moderate abjuration; CL.11th; Craft Magic Arms.and Armor,
Tesist energy; Price +66,000 gp.

Spell Resistance: This property grants the armor's wearer spell
resistance while the armor is worn. The spell resistance can be 13,
15, 17, or 19, depending on the armor.

Strong abjuration; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, spell
resistance; Price +2 bonus (SR.13),+3 bonus (SR 15), +4 bonus (SR
17),or+5 bonus (SR.19).

Undead Controlling: The wearer of a suit of armor or a shield
with this property may control up.to 26 HD of undead per day, as
the control undead spell. At dawn each day, the wearer loses control
of any undead still under his sway, Armor or a shield with this abil-
ity appears to be made of bone; this feature is entirely decorative
and has no other effect on the armor.

Strong necromancy; CL 13th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
control undead; Price +49,000 gp, __

Wild: The wearer of a suit of armor or a shield with this ability
preserves his armor bonus (and any enhancement bonus) while in
awild shape. Armor and shields with this ability usually appear to
be made covered in leaf patterns, While the wearer is in.a. wild
shape, the armor cannot be seen.

Moderate. transmutation; CL 9th; Craft Magic Arms and|
Armor, baleful polymorph; Price +3 bonus. =

 

Specific Armors

The following specific suits of armor usually are preconstructed|
with exactly the qualities described here,
Adamantine Breastplate: This nonmagical breastplate!

jis made of adamantine, giving its wearer damage reduction
jof 2/—.

No.aura(nonmagical); Price 10,200 gp.

 
