 

Strong conjuration; CL 15th; Forge Ring, summon. monster V1, all
appropriate spells; Price 200,000 gp.

Energy Resistance: This reddish iron ring continually pro-
tects the wearer from damage from one type of energy—acid,
cold, electricity, fire, or sonic (chosen by the creator of the item: |
determine randomly. if found as part of a treasure hoard), Each |
time the wearer would normally take such damage, subtract the)

[ring's resistance value from the damage dealt,

A minor ring of energy resistance grants 10 points of resistance. Al
\major-ring of energy resistance grants 20 points of resistance. A greater)
ring of energy resistance grants 30 points of resistance.

Faint (minor or major) or moderate (greater) abjuration; CL 3rd
_{minor), 7th (major), or 11th (greater); Forge Ring, resist energy;

Price 12,000 gp (minor),.28,000 gp (major), 44,000 gp (greater).

Evasion: This ring continually grants the wearer the ability 10

avoid damage as if she had evasion. Whenever she makes a Reflex
,saving throw to determine whether she takes half damage, a suc-
\cessful save results in no damage. |
|Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Forge Ring, jump; Price)
125,000 gp.

Feather Falling: This ring is crafted with a feather pattern all!
around its edge. It acts exactly like a feather fall spell, activated im-
mediately if the wearer falls more than 5 feet.

Faint transmutation; CL 1st; Forge Ring, feather fall; Price 2,200 gp.

Force Shield: An iron band, this simple ring generates a shield-
sized (and shield-shaped) wall of force that stays with the ring and

ican be wielded by the wearer as if it were a heavy shield (+2 AC).
[This special creation has no armor check penalty or arcane spell
[failure chance since it is weightless and encumbrance-free. It can
be activated and deactivated at will as a free action.

Moderate evocation; CL 9th; Forge Ring, wall of force; Price 8,500 gp.

Freedom of Movement: This gold ring allows the wearer to
jactas if continually under the effect of a freedom_of movement spell.

Moderate abjuration; CL 7th; Forge Ring, freedom of movement;
Price 40,000 gp.

Friend Shield: These curious rings always.come in pairs. A
friend shield ring without its mate is useless. Either wearer of one of
a pair of the rings can, at any time, command his or her ring to-cast,
a shield other spell with the wearer of the mated ring as the recipi-|
ent. This effect has no range limitation

Moderate abjuration; CL 10th; Forge Ring, shield other; Price
$0,000 gp (for a pair).

Invisibility: By activating this simple silver ring, the wearer
can benefit from invisibility, as the spell.

Faint illusion; CL 3rd; Forge Ring, invisibility; Price 20,000 gp.

Jumping: This ring continually allows the wearer to leap about,
providing a +5 competence bonus on all his Jump checks.

Faint transmutation; CL 2nd; Forge Ring, creator must have 5

{ranks in the Jump skill; Price 2,500 gp.
| Jumping, Improved: As jumping, except it grants a +10 com-
[petence bonus on its wearer's Jump check.

Moderate transmutation;.CL 7th; Forge Ring, creator must have
10 ranks in the Jump skill; Price 10,000 gp.

Mind Shielding: This ring is usually of fine workmanship and
wrought from heavy gold. The wearer is continually immune to
detect thoughts, discern lies, and any.attempt to magically discern her
alignment.

Faint aburation; CL 3rd; Forge Ring, nondctection; Price 8,000 gp.

Protection: This ring offers continual magical protection in
,the form of a deflection bonus of +1 to.+5 to AC,

Faint abjuration; CL Sth; Forge Ring, shield of faith, caster must
jbeofa level at least three times greater than the bonus of the ring;
{Price 2,000 gp (ring +1); 8,000 gp (ring +2); 18,000 gp (ring +3);
$32,000 gp (ring +4); $0,000 gp (ring +5).

Ram: The ring of the ram is an ornate ring forged of hard metal,

usually iron or.an iron alloy. It has the head of a ram (or a billy)
goat).as its device.

  

The wearer can. command the ring to give forth a ramlike force,,
manifested by avaguely discernible shape that resembles the head
ofaxam_or.a goat. This force strikes a single target, dealing 1d6.
points of damage if 1 charge is expended, 2dé points if 2 charges

jare used, or 3d6 points if 3 charges (the maximum) are used. Treat

{this as a ranged attack with a 50-foot maximum range and no
|penalties for distance, The ring is useful for knocking opponents
off parapets or ledges, among other things.

The force of the blow.is considerable, and those struck by the,
ring are subject to a bull rush if within 30 feet of the ring-wearer.,
\(The ram has Strength 25 and is Large.) The ram gains a+1 bonus |

on the bull rush attempt if 2 charges are expended, or +2 if 3
charges are expended.

In addition to its attack mode, the ring of the ram also has the,
power.to. open doors as if it were a character with Strength 25. If 2)
charges are expended, the effect is equivalent to a character with
,Strength 27. If 3 charges are expended, the effect is that of achar-
jacter with Strength 29.

| "A newly created ring has $0 charges. When all the charges are.
expended, the ring becomes a nonmagical irem.

Moderate transmutation; CL 9th; Forge Ring, bull’s strengths, tele-
kinesis; Price 8,600 gp.

Regeneration: This white gold ring continually allows a living
wearer to heal 1 point of damage per level every hour rather than
every day. (This ability cannot be aided by the Heal skill) Non-
lethal damage heals ar arate of 1 point of damage per level every 5
minutes. If the wearer loses a limb, an organ,.or any other body |
part while wearing this ring, the ring regenenates it.as the spell. In|
either case, only damage taken while wearing the ring is regener-|
ated.

Strong conjuration; CL 15th; Forge Ring, regenerate; Price]
90,000 gp.

‘Shooting Stars: This ring has two modes of operation, one for
being in shadowy darkness or outdoors at night and a second one
when the wearer is underground or indoors at night.

During the night under the open sky or in areas of shadow or
darkness, the ring of shooting stars can perform the following func-
tions on command.

Dancing lights (once per hour)

Light (twice per night

Ball lightning (special, once per-night)

Shooting stars (special, three per week)

The first special function, ball lightning, releases one to four
balls of lightning (ring wearer's choice). These glowing globes
resemble dancing lights, and the ring wearer controls them in the
same fashion (see the dancing lights spell description in the Player's
Handbook), The spheres have a 120-foot range and a duration of +
rounds, They can be moved at 120 feet per round. Each sphere is
about 3 feet in diameter, and any creature who comes within 5
feer of one causes its charge to dissipate, taking electricity
damage in the process according to the number of balls created.

Number of Balls. Damage per Ball
4 lightning balls 1d6 points of damage each
3 lightning balls, 2d6 points of damage each
2 lightning balls 3d6 points of damage each

1 lightning, ball 4d6 points of damage
Once the ball lightning function is activated, the balls can be
released at any time before the sun rises. (Multiple balls can be,
released inthe same round.)

The second special function produces three shooting stars. that,
,can be released from the ring each week, simultaneously or one at.
atime. They impact for 12 points of damage and spread (as a fire-
ball) in.a S-foot-radius sphere for 24 points of fire damage.

Any. creature struck by a shooting star takes full damage from
impact plus full fire damage from the spread unless it makes a DC 13
