 

Strong enchantment, evocation, necromancy, and transmuta-

tion; CL 19th; Craft Rod, Craft Magic Arms.and Armor, inflict
light wounds, bull's strength, flame blade, hold person, fear; Price
70,000 gp.

Metal and Mineral Detection: This rod pulses in the wielder's.
hand and points to.the largest mass of metal within 30 feet, How-,
,ever, the wielder can concentrate on a specific metal or mineral,
(gold, platinum, quartz, beryl, diamond, corundum, and so on). If|
|the specific mineral is within 30 feet, the rod points to any places)
itis located, and the rod wielder knows the approximate quantity,

jasswell, If more than one deposit of the specified metal or mineral
liswwithin range, the rod points to the largest cache first, Each oper-
ation requires a full-round action,
Moderate divination; CL 9th; Craft Rod, locate object; Price
10,500 gp.
Metamagic Rods: Metamagic rods hold the essence of a meta-
umagic feat bur do nor change the spell slot of the altered spell. All

ithe rods described here are use-activated (bur casting spells in a}
(threatened area still draws an artack of opportunity). A caster may.)
Jonly use one metamagic rod on any given spell, but it is permissi-|

ble to combine a.rod with metamagic feats possessed by the rods
wielder. In this case, only the feats possessed by the wielder adjust
the spell slot of the spell being cast

Possession of a metamagic rod does not confer the associated

feat on the owner, only the ability to use the given feat a specified
number of times.per day, A sorcerer still must take a full-round
jaction when using a metamagic rod, just as if using a metamagic
[feat he possesses.

Lesser and Greater Metamagi¢ Rods; Normal metamagic rods can
the used with spells of 6th level or lower. Lesser rods can be used
with spells of 3rd level or lower, while greater rods can be used
[with spells of 9th level or lower.

.—Metamagic, Empower: The wielder.can cast up to three
ispells per day that are empowered as though using the Empower
Spell feat,
Strong (no school); CL 17th; Craft Rod, Empower Spell; Price
9,000 gp (lesser), 32,500 gp (normal), 73,000 gp (greater).
Metamagic, Enlarge: The wielder can cast up to three spells.

 
 

per day.that are enlarged as though using the Enlarge Spell feat.|
Strong (no school); CL 17th; Craft Rod, Enlarge Spell; Price|

3,000 gp (lesser), 11,000 gp (normal), 24,500 gp (greater).
Metamagic, Extend: The wielder can cast up to three spells’
per day that are extended as though using the Extend Spell feat.
Strong (no school); CL 17th; Craft Rod, Extend Spell; Price
3,000 gp (lesser), 11,000 gp (normal), 24,500 gp (greater).

ic, Maximize: The wielder can cast up to three spells

per day that are maximized as though using the Maximize Spell feat.
Strong (no school); CL 17th; Craft Rod, Maximize Spell feat;
{Price 14,000 gp (lesser), 54,000 gp (normal), 121,500 gp (greater),
|_Metamagic, Quicken; The wielder can cast up to three spells
per day that are quickened as though using the Quicken Spell feat
Strong (no school); CL.17th; Craft Rod, Quicken Spell; Price

35,000 gp (lesser), 75,500 gp (normal), 170,000 gp (greater).
Metamagic, Silent: The wielder can cast up to three spells per
day without verbal components as though using the Silent Spell feat.
Strong (no school); CL 17th; Craft Rod, Silent Spell; Price 3,000
gp (lesser), 11,000 gp (normal), 24,500 gp (greater).

Negation: This device negates the spell or spell-like function

or functions of magic items, The wielder points the rod at the
magic item, and a pale gray beam shoots forth to touch the target
(device, attacking as a ray (a ranged touch attack), The ray functions
jas a greater dispel magic spell, except it only affects magic items. To
jnegate instantaneous effects from an item, the rod wielder needs
jto have used a ready action. The dispel check uses the rod’s caster
level (15th), The target item gets no saving throw, although the

 

rod canit.negate artifacts (even minor artifacts). The rod can func-|

tion. three times per day.

 

Strong varied; CL 15th; Craft Rod, dispel magic, and limited wish |
or mitacle; Price 37,000 gp.

Python: This rod is longer than normal rods. It is about 4 feet,
long and weighs 10 pounds, It strikes as a +1/+1 quarterstaff, If the.
user throws the rod to the ground (a standard action), it grows to

ibecome a giant constrictor snake (see page 280 of the Monster
\Manual for complete statistics) by the end of the round. The

python obeys all commands of the owner. (In animal form, it
retains the +1 enhancement bonus on attacks and damage pos-

.sessed by the rod form.) The serpent returns.to rod form (a full-

round action) whenever the wielder desires, or whenever it moves,
farther than 100 feet from the owner. If the snake form is slain, it
returns to rod form and cannot be activated again for three days. A

python. rod only functions if the possessor is good. }

Moderate transmutation; CL 10th; Craft Rod, Craft Magic Arms,
and Armor, baleful polymorph, creator must be good; Price 13,000 gp.
Rulership: This rod looks like a royal scepter worth at least
(000 gp in materials and workmanship alone. The wielder can

 

\command the obedience and fealty of creatures within 120 feet,
uwhen she activates the device (a standard action), Creatures total-

ing 300 Hit Dice can be ruled, but creatures with Intelligence

scores of 12 or higher are entitled to. a DC 16 Will save to negate,
the effect, Ruled creatures obey the wielderas if she were their

absolute sovereign. Still, ifthe wielder gives a. command that is

contrary. to the nature of the creatures commanded, the magic is

broken. The rod can be used for 500 total minutes before crum-

bling to dust. This duration need not be continuous.

Strong enchantment; CL 20th; Craft Rod, mass charm mensteriy +
Price 60,000 gp; Cost 27,500 gp + 2,200 XP 4

Security: This item creates a nondimensional space, a pocket
paradise, There the rod’s possessor and as many as 199 other crea:
tures can stay in. complete safety for a period of time, up.to.200.
days divided by the number of creatures affected. Thus, one crea-
ture (the rod’s possessor) can stay for 200 days, four creatures can
stay for $0 days, or a group of sixty creatures can stay for 3.days, All
fractions are rounded down, so that a group numbering more than
100 can stay for one day only and a group of 201. or more cannot be
affected by the rod.

In this pocket paradise, creatures don't age, and natural healing
take place at twice the normal. rate. Eresh water and food (fruits
and vegetables only) are in. abundance. The climate is comfortable
for all creatures involved,

Activating the rod (a standard action) causes the wielder and all
creatures touching the rod to be transported instantaneously to
the paradise. Members of large groups can hold hands or other-
wise maintain physical contact, allowing all connected creatures
ina circle ora chain to be affected by the rod. Unwilling creatures
get a DC_17 Will save to negate the effect. If such a creature suc-
ceeds on its save, other creatures beyond that point in a chain can
still be affected by the rod.

When the rod’ effect expires or is dispelled, all the affected crea-
tures instantly reappear in the location they occupied when the rod
was activated. If something else occupies the space that a traveler
would be returning to, then his body is displaced a sufficient dis-
tance.to provide the space required for reentry, The rod’s possessor
can dismiss the effect whenever he wishes before the maximum,
time period expires, but the rod can only be activated once perweek.

Strong conjuuration; CL 20th; Craft Rod, gate; Price 61,000 gp.

Splendor: The possessor of this rod gains a +4 enhancement,
bonus to her Charisma score for as long as she holds or.carries the,

,item, Once per day, the rod creates and garbs herin clothing of the}

 

finest fabrics, plus adornments of furs.and jewels, _
Apparel created by the magic of the rod remains in existence for,

{12 hours. However, if the possessor attempts to sell or give away
jany.part.of it, 10 use it for a spell component, or the like, all the
japparel immediately disappears. The same applies if any of it is

forcibly taken from her.
