spell has the same width (about 8 1/2 inches) but is an extra foot : containing divive spells. (The type of scroll a character creates

or so long for each extra spell. Scrolls thar hold three or more is.also determined by his or her class. For example, clerics
spells are usually fitted with reinforcing rods at each end rather create scrolls of divine spells, wizards create scrolls of arcane,
than simple strips of leather. A scroll has AC 9, 1 hit point, hard- spells, and so forth.)
ness 0, and a break DC of 8. , {2 The user must have the spell on his or her class list (see the spell
To protect it from wrinkling or tearing, ascroll is rolled up from, {lists in Chapter. 11 of the Player's Handbook for which classes can
both ends to form a double cylinder. (This. also helps the user un-} _,__ cast which spells),
roll the scroll quickly.) The scroll is placed in a tube of ivory,jade,| * The user must have the requisite ability score (for example,
ieather, metal, or wood. Most scroll cases are inscribed with magic} Intelligence 15 for a.wizard casting a Sth-level spell),
ssymbols (see. the arcane mark spell, page 201 of the Player's Hand-| If the user meets all the requirements noted above, and her,
book), which often identify the owner or the spells stored on the caster level is at least equal to the spell’s caster level, she can auto-)
-sctolls inside. The symbols often hide magic traps such as glyph of matically activate the spell without a check. If she meets all three
warding or fire trap spells. requirements but her own caster level is lower than the scroll
Activation: To activate a scroll, a spellcaster must read the spell spell’s caster level, then she has to make a caster level check (DC
written on it. Doing so involves several steps and conditions. = scrolls caster level +1) to cast the spell successfully. 1fshe fails,
Decipher the Writing: The writing on a scroll must be deciphered she must make a DC § Wisdom check to avoid a mishap (see
-before.a character can.use itor know exactly what spell it contains... _|Scroll Mishaps, below). A natural roll of 1 always fails, whatever
This requires a read magic spell ora successful Spellcraft check(DC|. _{the modifiers.
|20.+-spell level), 1 4 Determine Effect: A spell successfully activated from a scroll
Deciphering a scroll to determine its contents does not activate its) _|works exactly like a spell prepared and cast the normal way. As-
magic unless it isa specially prepared cursed scroll. A character can, _ sume the scroll spelll’s caster level is always the minimum level
decipher the writing on a scroll in advance so that he or she can pro-__ required to cast.the spell for the character who scribed the scroll
ceed directly to the next step when the time comes to use the scroll. (usually twice the spell’s level, minus 1), unless the caster specifi-
Activate the Spell: Activating a scroll requires reading the spell cally desires otherwise. For example, a 10th-level cleric might
from the scroll. The character must be able to see and read the want to create a cure critical wounds scroll at caster level 10th rather
writing on the scroll. than the minimum for the spell (caster level 7th), in order to get
Activating a scroll spell requires no material components or more benefit from the scroll spell. (This scroll would, however, be.
focus. (The creator of the scroll provided these when scribing the more costly to scribe.) +
scroll.) Note that some spells are effective only when cast on an The writing for an activated spell disappears from the scroll.
item or items (for example, Drawmij’s instant summons and snare). Scroll Mishaps: When a mishap occurs, the spell on the scroll has
In such a case, the scroll user must provide the item when acti- a reversed or harmful effect. The DM determines what sort of mis-
vating the spell. Activating a scroll spell is subject to disruption hap occurs, either by deciding on a certain effect to fitthe circum:
,just as casting a normally prepared spell would be (see Cast a stances of the encounter or adventure or by choosing from the.
Spell, page 140 of the Player's Handbook), Using a scroll is like cast- possibilities given below,
ing a spell for purposes of arcane spell failure chance (such as * A surge of uncontrolled magical energy deals 146 points of
from armor). damage per spell level to the scroll user
To have any chance of activating a. scroll spell, the scroll user * Spell strikes the scroll user or an ally instead of the intended
must meet the following requirements. target, or a random target nearby if the scroll user was the
* The spell must be of the correct type (arcane_or divine).) intended recipient.

Arcane spellcasters. (wizards, sorcerers, and bards) can only! Spell takes effect at some random location within spell range.
use scrolls containing arcane spells, and divine spellcasters, Spell’s effect onthe target is contrary.to the spells normal
(clerics, druids, paladins, and_rangers) can only use scrolls. effect. For example, a fireball: might produce a blast of nondam-
aging cold or release a burst of healing energy.

The scroll user suffers some minor but bizarre effect related to

Tape 7-20: Scrout Tyres

4% roll Type the spell in some way. For example, a fireball might cause
01-70 Arcane smoke. to pour from the user's ears, a fly spell might turn the
71-100 Divine user's arms into nonfunctional wings, or a clairaudience/clair-
: voyance spell might cause the user's eyes and ears to grow to ten
TABLE 7-21; NUMBER OF SPELLS ON A SCROLL times their normal size. Most such effects should last only as
Scroll Type Number of Spells long as the original spell’s duration, or 2410 minutes for instan-
. Minor scroll 13 spells taneous spells,
Medium scroll 1d4 spells. * Someinnocuous item or items appear in the spell’s area. For
Major scroll 1d6 spells example,.a fireball might. cause arain of lit torches to fall in
the target area;.a feather fall spell might produce a cloud of
TasLe 7—22: ScROLL SpeLt Levets feathers; a passwall spell might cause a (nonfunctional) door
Minor Medium Major Spell Level__Spell’s Caster Level’ to appear.
01-05 = = 0 Ist * Spell has delayed effect. Sometime within the next 1d12 hours,
06-50 = — Ist. Ist the spell activates. If the scroll user was the intended recipient,
51-95 01-05 =— 2nd 3rd. the spell takes effect normally, If the user was not.the intended}
96-100. 06-65 = 3rd Sth recipient, the spell goes off in the general direction of the orig-|
,= 66-95 01-05 4th 7th inal recipient or target, up to the spells maximum range, ifthe}
= 96-100___06-50 Sth. Sth. target. has moved away. +
{— = 51-70 6th Mth Random Generation: To generate scrolls randomly, first roll)
— = 21-85 7th. 13th on Table 7-20: Scroll Types to determine whether the spells are
- - 86-95 8th 15th jarcane or divine. Then randomly determine how many spells are
= - 95-100 9th 17th 1 jon the scroll, according to Table 7-21: Number of Spells on a

1 These.numbers assume that the creator is a cleric, druid, or wizard, Scroll. For each spell, roll on Table 7-22: Scroll Spell Levels to

 
