‘Cause fear (1 charge) io

Ghoul touch (1 charge)

Halt undead (1 charge)

Enervation (2 charges)

‘Waves of fatigue (2 charges)

Circle of death (3. charges)

Strong necromancy; CL 13th; Craft Staff, cause fear, circle of death,

‘enervation, ghoul touch, halt. undead, waves of fatigue; Price 65,000 gp.)
Passage: This potent item allows use.of the following spells:|

Dimension door (1 charge) }

Passwall (1 charge) =

Phase door (2 charges)

Greater teleport (2 charges)

Astral projection (2 charges)

Strong varied;.CL 17th; Craft Staff, astral projection, dimension

door, greater teleport, passwall, phase door; Price 170,500 gp.

Power: The staff of poweris.a very potent magic item, with offen-
sive and defensive abilities. Ir is usually topped with a glistening |

\gem, its shaft straight and smooth. It has the following powers:,
+ Magic missile (1 charge)

Ray of enfeeblement (heightened to Sth level) (1 charge)
Continual flame (1. charge)

Levitate (1 charge)

Lightning bolt (heightened to Sth level) (1 charge)

Fireball (heightened to Sth level) (1 charge)

Cone of cold (2 charges)

Hold monster (2 charges)

Wall of force (in a 10-ft.-diameter hemisphere around the caster
only) (2 charges)

+ Globe of invulnerability (2 charges)

The wielder of a staff of power gains a +2 luck bonus to AC and
saying throws. The staff is also a +2 quarterstaff..and its wielder may

use it to smite opponents. If 1 charge is expended (asa free action),
ithe staff causes double damage (x3 on a critical hit) for 1. round.

A staff of power can be used for a retributive strike, requiring it to
be broken by its wielder, (If this breaking of the staff is purposeful
and declared by the wielder, it.can be performed as.a. standard
action that does not require the wielder to make a Strength check.)
All charges currently in the staff are instantly released in. 30-foot-,
radius. All within 2 squares of the broken staff take points.of|
damage equal to 8 x the number of charges in the staff, those 3 or 4
squares away take 6 x the number of charges in damage, and those
5 or 6 squares distant take 4 x the number of charges in damage. All
those affected can make DC 17 Reflex saves to reduce the damage
by half.

The character breaking the staff has a S0% chance of traveling to
another plane of existence, but ifhe does not, the explosive release
of spell energy destroys him. Only certain items, including the

| staffof the magi (page 280) and the staff of power, are capable of being
wused fora retributive strike.

After all charges are_used up from the staff, it remains a +2 quar-
terstaff. (Once empty_of charges, it cannot be used for a retributive
strike.)

Strong v: aried; CL 15th; Craft Staff, Craft Magic Arms and
Armor, magic missile, heightened ray of enfeeblement, continual flame,
levitate, heightened fireball, heightened lightning bolt, cone of cold,
hold monster, wall of force, globe of invulnerability; Price 211,000 gp.

Size Alteration: Stout and sturdy, this staff of dark wood allows
use of the following spells:

42. Enlarge person (1 charge)
Reduce person.(1. charge)
Shrink. item (1 charge)
Enlarge person, mass (1. charge)
Reduce person, mass (1. charge)
Faint conjuration; CL 8th; Craft Staff, enlarge person, mass enlarge
person, reduce person, mass reduce person, shrink item; Price 29,000 gp...
Swarming Insects: Made of twisted dark wood with dark!

 

spots resembling crawling insects (which occasionally seem.t0,
move), this staff allows use of the following spells:

* Summon swarm (1.charge) i
+ Insect plague (3 charges)

Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Staff, insect plague, summon

swarm; Price 24,750 gp.

‘Transmutation: This staff is generally carved from or deco-
rated with petrified wood and allows use of the following -
+ Expeditious retreat (1 charge)

.2. Alter self (1 charge)

+ Blink (1 charge)

+ Polymorph (2 charges)

* Baleful polymorph (2 charges)

Disintegrate (3 charges)

Strong transmutation; CL 13th; Craft Staff, alter. self, baleful poly-
morph, blink, disintegrate, expeditious retreat, polymorph; Price 65,000.

8p.

J Woodlands: Appearing to have grown naturally into its shape,
this oak, ash, or yesw staff allows use of the following spells: 4

{+ Charm animal (1 charge)

speak with animals (1 charge)

Barkskin (2 charges)

Wall of thonis.(3 charges)

‘Summon .naturesally V1. charges).

Animate plants (4 charges)

The. staff may be used as a weapon, functioning as.a +2 quarter-
staff. The staff of the woodlands also allows its wielder to pass.without|

jtrace at will, with no.charge cost. These two attributes continue to,
function after all the charges are expended.

Moderate varied; CL 13th; Craft Staff, Craft Magic Arms and

Armor, animate plants, barkskin, charm animal, pass without trac
speak with animals, summon nature's ally V1, wall of thorns; Price)
101,250 gp.

WANDS
‘A wand is a thin baton that contains a single spell of 4th level or
lower. Each wand has 50 charges when created, and.each charge
expended allows the user to use the wand’s spell one time. A wand
that runs out of charges is justa stick.

Physical Description: A typical wand is 6 inches to 12 inches
long and about 1/4.inch thick, and often weighs no more than 1
ounce, Most wands are wood, but some are bone. A rare few are
metal, glass, or even ceramic, but these are quite exotic. Occasion-
ally, a wand has a gem.or some device at its tip, and most are deco-
rated with carvings or runes. A typical wand has AC 7, 5 hit points,
hardness S,and a break DC of 16.

Activation: Wands use the spell trigger activation method, so
casting a spell from a wand is usually a standard action that
doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity. (If the spell being cast,
however, has a longer casting time than 1 action, it takes that
long to cast. the spell from a wand.) To activate a wand, 2 charac-
ter must hold iin hand (or whatever passes for a hand, for non-
humanoid creatures) and point it in the general direction of the
target or area. A wand may be used while grappling or while
swallowed whole.

Random Generation: To generate wands randomly, roll on
Table 7-26; Wands. Some wands on the table are versions created ,
at particular caster levels; in such cases, the caster level of the item
is given in parentheses,

Special Qualities: Roll di. A 01-30 result indicates that some-,

thing (a design, inscription, or the like) provides some clue to the)
wand’s function, and 31-100 indicates no special qualities, 4

 

 

 

Wand Descriptions.
All wands are simply storage devices for spells and thus have no
| special descriptions. Refer to the spell descriptions in Chapter 11
of the Player’ Handbook for all pertinent details.

 
