 

Boots of Elvenkind: These soft boots enable the wearer to
move quietly in virtually any surroundings, granting a +5 compe-
tence bonus on Move Silently checks,

Faint transmutation; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, creator
must be an elf; Price 2,500 gp; Weight 1 Ib,

Boots of Levitation: On command, these leather boots allow ,

ithe. wearer to levitate as if she had cast levitate on herself.
| Faint transmutation; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, levitate;;
[Price 7,500 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Boots of Speed: As a free action, the wearer can click her boot,
-heels together, enabling her to.act.as though affected by a haste
,spellfor up to 10 rounds each day. The duration of the haste effect
_need not be consecutive rounds,

Moderate transmutation; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item, haste;

Price 12,000 gp; Weight 1 1b,

Boots of Striding and Springing: These boots increase the
wearer's base land speed by.10 feet. In addition to this striding
sability (considered an. enhancement bonus), these boots allow the |.
jswearer.to make great leaps. She can jump with a +5 competence).

jbonus on Jump checks.

Faint transmutation; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, longstrider,
creator must have 5 ranks in the Jump skill; Price 5,500 gp;
Weight 1 Ib,

Boots of Teleportation: Any character wearing this footwear
may teleport three times per day, exactly as if he had cast the spell
of the same name.

Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, teleport;

[Brice 49,000 gp; Weight 3 Ib.

Boots of the Winterlands: This footgear bestows many
}powers upon the wearer. First, he is able to travel across snow at
this normal speed, leaving no tracks. The boots also.enable him to
\travel at normal speed across the most slippery. ice (horizontal
jsurfaces only, not vertical or sharply slanted ones) without falling
lor slipping, Finally, boots of the winterlands warm the wearer, as if

he were affected by an endure elements spell.

Faint abjuration and transmutation; CL sth; Craft Wondrous
Item, cat's grace, endure elements, pass without trace: Price 2,500 gp;
Weighr 1 Jb.

Boots, Winged: These boots appear to be ordinary footgear.|
On command, the boots sprout wings at the heel and let the)
wearer fly, without having to maintain concentration, as if,
affected by a fly spell. He can fly three times day for up to 5 min-
utes per flight.

Faint transmutation; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, fly; Price
16,000.gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Bottle of Air: This item appears to be a normal glass bottle
with a cork, When taken to any airless environment (such as

,underwater or in a vacuum), it retains air within it at all times,
{continually renewing its contents. This means that a character
jcan.draw air out of the bottle to breathe. The bottle can even be
shared by multiple characters who pass.it around. Breathing out
of the bottle is a standard action, buta character sodoing can then
act for as long as she can hold her breath.

Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, water
breathing; Price 7,250 gp; Weight 2 Ib.

Bowl of Commanding Water Elementals: This large con-
tainer is usually fashioned from blue or green semiprecious stone
(malachite, lapis lazuli, azurite, turquoise, peridot,.or sometimes
Jade). It is about 1 foot in diameter, half that deep, and relatively

fragile. When.the bowl is filled with fresh water, and certain
jwords are spoken, a Large water elemental appears. The sammon-
jing.words require 1 full round to speak. In all ways the bowl func-

tions as. the summon monster VI spell. Only one elemental can be
jcalled.at.a time. A new elemental requires the bowl to be filled
with new. water, which cannot happen until after the first ele-
mental disappears (is dispelled, dismissed, or slain),

If salt water is used, the elemental is Huge rather than Large (as!

if summon.monster VII had been cast), See page 98 of the Monster,
Manual for details on water elementals.
Strong conjuration; CL 13th; Craft Wondrous Item, summon,
monster V1, summon. monster VII; Price 100,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.
Bracelet of Friends; This silver charm bracelet has four

icharms upon it when created, The owner may designate one
4person known to him to be keyed to one charm. (This designation

takes a standard action, but once done it lasts forever or until
changed.) When a charm is grasped and the name of the keyed.

individual is spoken, that person is called to the spot (a standard,

action) along with his or her gear, as long as the owner.and the |
called person are on the same plane, The keyed individual knows.
who is calling, and the bracelet of friends only functions on willing
travelers. Once a charm is activated, it disappears. Charms sepa-,
rated from the bracelet are worthless, A bracelet found with fewer |
than four charms is worth 25% less for each missing charm,

Strong conjuration; CL 15th; Craft Wondrous Item, refuge: Price
419,000 gp.

Bracers of Archery, Greater: These wristbands look like,

Tnormal protective wear. The bracers empower the wearer to use

any bow (not including crossbows) as if she were proficient in its
use. If she already has proficiency with any type of bow, she gains
4+2. competence bonus on attack rolls and a+1. competence bonus
on damage rolls whenever using that typeof bow. Both bracers
must be worn for the magic. to be effective.

Moderate transmutation; CL 8th; Craft Wondrous Item, Craft
Magic Arms and Armor, Price 25,000 gp; Weight. Ib.

Bracers of Archery, Lesser: These wristbands function as..
greater bracers of archery, except that they grant.a +1. competence}
bonus on attack rolls and no bonus on damage rolls.

Faint transmutation; CL 4th; Craft Wondrous Item, Craft Magic!
Anns and Armor; Price 5,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib,

Bracers of Armor: These items appear to be wrist or arm,
guards. They surround the wearer with an invisible but tangible
field of force, granting him an armor bonus of +1 to.+8, just-as
though he were wearing armor, Both bracers must be worn forthe
magic to be effective.

Moderate conjuration; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, mage
armor, creator's caster level must be at least two times that of the
bonus placed in the bracers; Price 1,000 gp (+1), 4,000 gp (+2),
9,000 gp (+3), 16,000 gp (+4), 25,000 gp (+5), 36,000 gp (+6), 49,000
gp (+7),.64,000 gp (+8); Weight 1 Ib,

Brazier of Commanding Fire Elementals: This device
appears to bea normal container for holding burning coals, When
a fire is lit in the brazier and the proper summoning words are
spoken,.a_Large fire elemental appears, The summoning words
require 1 full round to speak. In all ways the brazier functions as
the summon. monster VI spell. If brimstone is added, the elemental
is Huge instead of Large, and the brazier works as a summon mon-
ster VIL spell. Only one elemental can be summoned at a time. A
new elemental requires a new_fire, which cannot be lit until after
the first elemental disappears (is dispelled, dismissed, or slain),
See page 98.of the Monster Manual for details on fire elementals.

Strong conjuration; CL 13th; Craft Wondrous Item, summon
monster V1, summon monster VL; Price 100,000 gp; Weight 5 lb.

Brooch of Shielding: This appears to be a piece of silver or
gold jewelry used to fasten a cloak or cape. In addition.to this.
mundane task, it can absorb magic missiles of the sort generated by ,
spell or spell-like ability. A brooch can absorb up to 101 points of |
damage from magic missiles before it melts and becomes useless. |

Faintabjuration;.CL 1st; Craft Wondrous Item, shield; Price |

1,500 gp.
Broom of Elying: This broom is able to fly through the air as if

jaffected by an overland flight spell (average maneuverability) for up
{to.2 hours per day (split up as its owner desires). The broom can
\carry.200 pounds and fly at a speed of 40 feet, or up to 400 pounds:

ata speed at 30 feet. In addition, the broom can travel alone to any
