 

centered on the candle. The zone lasts for 1 hour, as the candle
burns. If the candle is snuffed before that time, the effect is can-
celed and the candle ruined.

Faint enchantment; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item,
Price 2,500 gp; Weight 1/2 Jb.

Cape of the Mountebank: On command, this bright red and.
gold cape allows the wearer to use the magic of the dimension door
spell once per day. When he disappears, he leaves behind a cloud
of smoke, appearing in a similar fashion ar his destinat

Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item,
door; Price 10,080 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Carpet of Flying: This rug is able to fly through the air as
affected by an overland flight spell of unlimited duration. The size,
carrying capacity, and speed of the different carpets of flying are
shown on the table below. Beautifully and intricately made, each
carpet has its own command word to activate ir—if the
within voice range, the command word activates it, whether the

 

 

  

 

 

   

pension.

 

  

 

levice is

 

   

speaker is.on.the rug or not. The carpet is then controlled by

spoken directions.

 

Size Capacity Speed Weight
SAbySf. —2001b. 40. 8b. 20,000 gp
5 ft. by 10 ft. 400 Ib. 40 ft 15 Ib. 35,000 gp
1Of. by10f. 800lb, 40%. 10 Ib. 60,000 gp

A carpet of flying can carry up to double its capacity, but doing so
reduces its speed to 30 feet. It has average maneuverability, but a
carpet of flying can still hover

Moderate transmutation; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item,
land flight, permanency

Censer of Controlling Air Elementals;
This 6-inch-wide, 1-inch-high perforated golden
vessel resembles a thurible found in a place of worship.
it is filled with incense and lit, summoning words.
spoken over it summon forth a Large air elemental.
The summoning words require 1 full round.to
speak, In all ways the censer functions as.the
summon monster V1 spell. Lf incense of meditation is
burned within the censer, the air elemental is an
elder air elemental instead (as if summon mon
ster IX had just been cast), Only one elemental
can be summoned at a time. A new elemen:
tal requires a new piece of incense, which

be lit until after the firstelemental @
disappears (is dispelled, dismisse¢
slain). See pag {the Monster Manu
for details on air elementals.

Strong_conjuration; CL 17th;
Craft Wondrous Item, summon mon-
ster VI, summon monster IX; Price
100,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib,

Chaos Diamond: This lustrous gem
stone is uncut.and about rhe size of a
human fist. The gem grants its po
the follow
+ Confusioy

 

   

 

 

cann

   

 

ol

 

  

 

 
 

SOF

 

ig. powers:

 

* Magic circle against law
* Wond of chaos
* Cloak of ¢

Each power is usable 1d4 times per day. (The
DM rolls secretly each day for each power sepa:
rately.)

‘A nonchaotic character who possesses a chaos diamond gains
one negative level. Although this level never results in actual
level loss, it remains as long as the diamond is in the character's
possession and cannot he overcome in any way (including restora
tion spells,

 

  

Cloak of
arachnida

 

 

Market Price

  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 

   
  

 

CL 19th; Craft Wondrous Item, cloak of chaos,

inst Jaw, random action, word of chaos, creator must be

Strong varied

 

magic.cirle age
chaotic; Price 160,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Chime of Interruption: This instrument can be struck once
every 10 minutes, and its resonant tone lasts for 3 full minutes.
While the chime is resonating, no spell requiring a verbal com
ponent can be cast within a 30-foot radius of it unl:
can make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the spell’s level

Moderate evocation; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, sh
16,800 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Chime of Opening: A ch is a hollow mithral tube
about 1 foot long. When struck, it sends forth magical vibrations
that cause locks, lids, doors, valves, and portals to open. The device
functions against normal bars, shackles, chains, bolts, and soon. A
chime of opening also automatically dispels a hold portal spell.or even.
reane lock cast by a wiza than 15th leve
The chime must be pointed at the item or gate to be loosed or
opened (which must be visible and known to the user), The chime
is then struck, a clear tone rings forth, and in 1 round the target.
lock is unlocked, the shackle is loosed, the secret door is opened,
or the lid of the chests lifted, Each sounding only opens one form.

 

ess the caster

   

 

 

¢ of openin

 

 

 

     

of low

   

 

 

 

  

of locking, so if.a chest is chained, padlocked, locked, and

 

locked, it takes four uses of a chime of 0 pening ta get itopen Asilenc
spe! A brand-new
chime can be used a total of ten times before it cracks
and becomes useless.
Moderate transmutation; CL11t
— §y/_drous Item, knock; Price 3,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.
©) Circler of Blasting, Minor; On comn
; simple golden headband projects a bl
light. (3d8 points of damage) once per day,
‘aint evocation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous Ite:
searing light; Price 6,480 gp.
Cireclet of Blasting, Major: On comm:
elaborate golden headband projects.a blast of
ht (Sd8 maximized for40 points of
damage) once per day.

Strong evocation; CL.17th; Craft Won
drous Item, Maximize Spell, sea’
Price 23,760 gp.

\ ne Circlet of Persuasion: This silver head
Vw band grants a+3 competence bonus on the
wearer's Charisma-based checks.

Faint transmutation; CL Sth; Craft Wo
Item, eagle's splendor; Price 4,500 gp.

Cloak of Arachnida: This |

 
     

negates the power of the devic

   

5 Craft Won:

   

  
 

 

   
  

 

  

 

      

 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

   

lack garmen

 

with a weblike pattern in silk, gives the wei
climb as if a spider climb spell had been

upon her. dition, the cloak grants her immur

entrapm web spells or webs of any sort—sk

actually move in webs at half her normal speed

Once per day, the wi
also gains a+2 luck bonus on all Fortitude saves against
poison from spiders.

Faint.conjuration and transmutation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous
Item, spider climb, web; Price 14,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib,
loak of the Bat; Fashioned of dark brown or black cloth, this
cloak bestows a.+5. competence bonus on Hide checks, The
wearer is also able to hang upside down from the ceiling,
like a bar

By holding the edges ent,.the wearer is
able-to fly.as per the spell tf he desires, the wearer.can actually
polymorph himself into an ordinary bat and fly accordingly. (All
possessions worn or carried are part of the transformation.) Fly
ing,.cither with the cloak or in bat form, can be accomplished
only in. darkness (either under the night sk
near-lightless environment underground

 

      

      

rer of this cloak can cast web. She

 

  

 

  
  

 

 

     

or in a lightless or
¢ flying

 

 

ither of

   
