Faint illusion; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous Item, major image; Price : chamber of up 0.100 square feet of floor space to become as dusty, J

8,100 gp; Weight 1/2 Ib. dirty, and cobweb-laden as if it had been abandoned and disused,
Dimensional Shackles: These shackles have golden runes foradecade.
traced across their cold iron surface. Any creature bound within A handful of dust sprinkled along a trail causes evidence of ‘the!
them is affected as if a dimensional anchor spell were cast upon her, __, passage of as many as adozen men and horses to be obliterated for
(no save). They fitany. Small to Large creature. The DC to break or 4250 feet back into the distance. The results of the dust are instan-
slip out of the shackles is 30. jtaneous, and no magical aura lingers afterward from this use of the
| Moderate abjuration; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, dimen-| dust. Survival checks made to track a quarry across an area affected
{sional anchor; Price 28,000 gp; Weight 5 Ib. by this dust have a DC 20 higher than normal.
Drums of Panic: These drums are kettle drums (hemispheres] _. Faint transmutation; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, pass without
about 1-1/2 feet in diameter on.stands). They come in pairs and trace; Price 250 gp.
lare unremarkable in appearance. If both of the pair are sounded, Efreeti Bottle: This item is typically fashioned of brass or.
all creatures within 120 feet (sith the exception of those within bronze, with a lead stopper bearing special seals, A thin stream of
a 20-foot-radius safe zone around the drums) are affected as by a smoke is often seen issuing from it. The bortle.can be opened once,
fear spell (Will DC.16 partial). Drums of panic can be used once _per day. When opened, the efreeti imprisoned within issues from |
per day. the bottle instantly, There is a 10% chance (01—10.0n d%) thar the
_. Moderate necromancy; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, fear; Price Lofreeti is insane and attacks immediately upon being released.
,30,000 gp; Weight 10 Ib, for the pair. [There is also a 10% chance (91-100) that the efreeti of the bottle
Dustof Appearance: This fine powder appears tobea very fine.| __|grants three wishes. In either case, the efteeti afterward disappears |
very light metallic dust. A single handful of this substance flung, _forever. The other. 80%.of the time (11-90), the inhabitant of the
into the air coats objects within a 10-foot radius, making them visi-. bottle loyally serves the character for up to 10 minutes per day (or
ble even if they are invisible. Ir likewise negates the effects of blur until the efreeti’s death), doing as she commands. (See page 115 of |
and displacement. (In this, it works just like the faerie fire spell), The the Monster Manual for efreeti statistics.) Roll each day the bottle is
dust also reveals figments, mirror images, and projected images for opened forthat day’s effect.
what they are. A creature coated with the dust takes a —30 penalty Strong conjuration; CL 14th; Craft Wondrous Item, summon.
on its Hide checks, The dust’s effect lasts for 5 minutes. monster VII; Price 145,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.
Dust of appearance is typically stored in small silk packets or Elemental Gem: This gem contains. conjuration spell,
Lhollow bone tubes. jattuned toa specific Elemental Plane (Air, Earth, Fire, or Water),|
Faint conjuration; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, glitterdust; When the gem is crushed, smashed, or broken (a standard)
Price 1,800 gp. action), a Large elemental appears as if summoned by.a summon,
Dust of Disappearance: This dust looks justlike dust ofappear- natures ally spell. The elemental is under the control of the crea:
lance and is typically stored in the same. manner. A creature or ture that broke the gem.
jobject touched by it becomes invisible (as greater inwisibility). The coloration of the gem varies with the type of elemental. it,
\Normal vision cant see dusted creatures or objects, nor can they summons, Air ¢lemental gems are transparent, earth elemental gems
be detected by magical means, including see invisibility or invisibil- are light brown, fire elemental gems are reddish orange, and water
ity purge. Dust of appearance, however, does reveal people and _clemental gems are blue-green.
objects made invisible by dust of disappearance, Other factors, such. Moderate conjuration; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, summon
as sound and smell, also allow possible detection. nature’ ally V; Price 2,250 gp.
The greater invisibility bestowed by the dust lasts for 2d6 rounds.| Elixir of Fire Breath: This strange elixir bestows upon the
‘The invisible creature doesnt know when the duration willend.| __drinker the ability to spit gours of flame. He can breathe fire up to
Moderate illusion; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, greater inwisi-. three times, each time dealing 446 points of fire damage to a single
bility; Price 3,500 gp. target up to 25 feet away. The victim can attempt a DC 13 Reflex
Dust of Dryness: This special dust has many uses. If it is save for half damage. Unused blasts dissipate 1 hour after the
thrown into water,a volume of as much as 100 gallons is liquid is consumed.
instantly transformed to nothingness, and the dust becomes @ Moderate evocation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, scorching
marble-sized pellet, floating or resting where it was thrown. If my; Price 1,100 gp.
this pellet is hurled down, it breaks and releases the same Elixir of Hiding: A character drinking this liquid gains an
volume of water. The dust affects only water (fresh, salt, alka- intuitive ability to hide (+10 competence bonus on Hide checks
line), not other liquids. for 1 hour).
1f the dust is employed against an elemental with the water sub- Faint illusion; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, invisibility; Price
\type, the creature must_make a DC 18 Fortitude save or be 250 gp.
destroyed. The dust deals $d6 points of damage to the creature Elixir of Love: This sweet-tasting liquid causes the character
even if its saving rhrow succeeds, drinking ito become charmed with the first creature she sees after
Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, control consuming the draft (as charm person—the drinker must be a hu-
water; Price 850 gp. manoid of Medium or smaller size, Will DC 14 negates). The
Dust of Illusion: This unremarkable powder resembles chalk charm effects wear off in 1d3 hours.
dust or powdered graphite, Stare at it, however, and the dust Faint transmutation; CL 4th; Craft Wondrous Item, charm.
changes color and form. Put dust of illusion.on.a creature, and that person; Price 150 gp.
creature is affected as if by a disguise self glamer, swith the individual Elixir of Sneaking: This draught of liquid grants the drinker the| }
who sprinkles the dust.enyisioning the illusion desired, An ability.to walk softly and dampens sound around her slightly, grant-|
junwilling target is allowed a DC 11 Reflex save to avoid the dust. jing a +10 competence bonus on Move Silently checks for 1 hour.)
|The glamer lasts for 2 hours. Faint illusion; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, silence: Price)
Faint illusion; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous Item, disguise self; Price 250 gp.
11,200 gp. Elixir of Swimming: This elixir bestows swimming ability. An
Dust of Tracelessness: This normal-seeming dust is actually a jalmost imperceptible magic sheath surrounds the drinker, allow-

magic powder that can conceal the passage of its possessorand his, _|ing him to glide through the water easily (+10 competence bonus
companions. Tossing a handful of this dust into the air causes.a, on Swim checks for t hour),

 
