created from the statuette is fully obedient to the figurine’s owner,
serving as a beast of burden, a mount, or a combatant.

The statuette can be used four times per month for up to 24
hours ata time.

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-
mate objects; Price 17,000 gp.

Obsidian Steed: This figurine appears to be a small, shapeless|
jlump of black stone. Only careful inspection reveals thar it)
[vaguely resembles some form of quadruped. On command, the,
.near-formless piece of obsidian becomes a fantastic mount. Treat it).

as.a. heavy warhorse (see page 273.0f the Monster Manual) with the |
following additional powers usable once per round at will: overland
flight, plane shift, and ethereal jaunt. The steed’allows itself to be
ridden, but if the rider is of good alignment, the steed is 10% likely
per use to carry him to the lower planes and then return to its stat-
uette form. The statuette can be used once per week for one con-
(tinuous period of up to 24 hours. Note that when an obsidian steed.
ibecomes ethereal or plane shifts, its rider and his gear follow suit.
, Thus, the user.can travel to other planes via this means.

Strong conjuration and transmutation; CL 15th; Craft Won-,
drous Item, animate objects, etherealness, fly, plane shift; Price,

28,500 gp.

Onyx Dog: When commanded, this statuette changes into a crea-
ture with the same properties as a riding dog (see page 272 of the
Monster Manual), except that it is endowed with an Intelligence of
8, can communicate in Common, and has exceptional olfactory

Land visual abilities, (It has the scent ability and adds +4 to its Spot
jand Search checks.) Ir has 60-foot darkvision, and it can see invisi-
bility: An onyx dog can be used once per week for up to 6 hours. It
obeys only its owner.

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-
(matte objects; Price 15,500 gp.

Serpentine Owl: This figurine becomes either a normal-sized
\horned owl or a giant owl (see page.277 or 205 of the Monster
| Manual, respectively), according to.the command word used. The
transformation can take place once per day, with a maximum
duration of § continuous hours. However, after three transforma-
tions into giant owl form, the statuette loses all its magical prop-,
erties, The owl communicates with its owner by telepathic)
means, informing her of all it sees and hears. (Remember the lim-|.
itations of its Intelligence.)

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-
mate objects; Price 9,100 gp.

Silver Raven: This silver figurine turns into a raven on command
(but it retains its metallic consistency, which gives it hardness 10).
Another command sends it off into the air, bearing a message just
like a creature affected by an animal_messenger spell. If not com-
manded to carry a message, the raven_obeys the commands of its
jowner, although it has no special powers or telepathic abilities. Ir
(can maintain its nonfigurine status for only 24 hours per week,

but the duration need not be continuous.

Faint enchantmentand transmutation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous
Item, animal messenger. animate objects; Price 3,800 gp.

Gauntlets of Ogre Power: These gauntlets are made of tough
leather with iron studs running across the back of the hands and
fingers, They grant the wearer great strength, adding a +2 en-
hancement bonus to his Strength score, Both gauntlets must be
worn for the magic to be effective.

Faint transmutation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous Item, bull's
strength; Price 4,000 gp; Weight 4 Ib.

__Gauntlet of Rust: This single metal gauntlet looks rusted and

jpitted bur is actually quite powerful, Once per day, it can affect an.

Jobject.as with the rusting grasp spell. It also completely protects the

(wearer and her gear from rust (magical or otherwise), including
the attack of a rust monster.

Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, rusting |
grasp; Price 11,500 gp; Weight 2 Ib.

 

Gem of Brightness: This crystal appears to be a long, rough,
prism, Upon utterance of a command word, the crystal emits |
bright light of one of three sorts.

* One command word causes the gem to shed light_as_aj
hooded lantern. This_use of the gem does not expend any
[charges
Another command word causes the gem of brightness to send
out a bright ray_1_foor in diameter and sO feet long. This
strikes as a ranged touch attack, and any creature struck by.
._ this beam is blinded for 1d4 rounds unless it. makes.a DC 14,
Fortitude save. This use of the gem expends 1 charge.
The third command word causes the gem to flare ina blinding.
flash of light that fills a 30-foot cone. Although this glare lasts
bur.a moment, any creature within the cone must make a DC
14 Fortitude save or be blinded for 1d4 rounds. This use,
expends 5 charges.
A newly created gem of brightness has $0 charges, When all its
‘charges are expended, the gem becomes nonmagical.
Faint evocation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous Item, daylight; Price
113,000 gp.

Gem of Seeing: This finely.cutand polished stone is indistin-
guishable from an ordinary jewel in. appearance. When itis gazed ,
through, a gem of seeing enables the user to see as though she were
affected by the true seeing spell. A.gem of secing can be used for as
much as 30 minutes a day, divided up into periods of minutes or
rounds as the user sees fit,

Moderate divination; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item, true seeing;
Price 75,000 gp.

Gloves of Arrow Snaring: Once snugly worn, these gloves,
seem to meld with the hands, becoming almost invisible, Twice |

per day, the wearer can act as if he had the Snatch Arrows feat,
even if he does not meet the prerequisites for it. Both gloves must,
be worn for the magic to be effective. At least one hand must be,
free to take advantage of the magic.

Faint abjuration; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, shield; Price
4,000 gp.

Gloves of Dexterity: These thin leather gloves are very flexible
and allow for delicate manipulation. They add to the wearer's Dex-
terity score in the form of an enhancement bonus of +2, +4, or +6.
Both gloves must be worn for the magic to be effective.

Moderate transmutation; CL 8th: Craft Wondrous Item, cat's
grace; Price 4,000 gp (+2), 16,000 gp (+4), 36,000 gp (+6).

Glove of Storing: This device is a.simple leather glove. On
command, one item held in the hand wearing the glove disap-
pears, The item can weigh no more than 20 pounds and must be
able to be held in one hand. While stored, the item has negligible
weight. With a snap of the fingers wearing the glove, the item
reappears, A glove can only store one item at a time. Storing or
retrieving the item is a free action. The item is held in stasis and
shrunk down so small within the palm_of the glove that it cannot
be seen. Many owners of a glove of storing find it to be a useful and
dramatic way to store weapons, wands, and—because the item is
stored in stasis—even lit torches, Spell durations are not sup-
pressed, bur continue to expire. If an effect is suppressed or dis-
pelled, the stored item appears instantly,

Faint transmutation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous Item, shrink item;
Price 10,000 gp (one glove),

Gloves of Swimming and Climbing: These apparently
normal lightweight gloves grant a +5 competence bonus.on Swim |
checks and Climb checks. Both gloves must be worn for the magic |
10 be effective.

Faint transmutation; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, bulls strength.
cat's grace; Price 6,250 gp.

Goggles of Minute Seeing: The lenses of this item are made of
{special crystal. When placed over the eyes of the wearer, the lenses
jenable herto see much better than. normal ar distances of 1 foot or

less, granting hera+5 competence bonus on Search checks to find

 

 
