    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
  
 
 
  

  
  
   
  
   
 

      

sor’s Wisdom score in the form of an enhancement bonus of +2
+4, or +6 (depending on the individual item),
Moderate transmutation; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, owl's
wisdom; Price 4,000 gp (+2), 16,000 gp (+4), 36,000 gp (+6).

Periapt of Wound Closure: This stone is bright red and dan-.
gles on a gold chain. The wearer of this periapt automatically |
ibecomes stable if his hit points drop to between ~1 and -9 inclu:}
\sive. The periapt doubles the wearer's normal rate of healing or;
allows normal healing of wounds that would not do so normally.)
.Hit.point damage that involves bleeding (such as damage caused |
{by the horned devil's infernal wound ability; see page 55 of the.
| Monster Manual), is negated for the wearer of the periapt, but he is
still susceptible to damage from bleeding that causes Constitution
Joss, such as that dealt by.awounding weapon,

Moderate conjuration; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item, heal;
Price 15,000 gp.

.— Phylactery of Faithfulness: This item is a small box contain-
jing religious scripture affixed to a leather cord and tied around the |
(forehead. There is no mundane way to determine what function |
this religious item performs until it is worn. The wearer of a phy=;
lactery of faithfulness is aware of any action or item that could,
adversely affect his alignment and his standing with his deity,
including magical effects. He acquires this information prior t0
performing such an action or becoming associated with such an
item if he takes a moment to contemplate the act.

Faint divination; CL 1st; Craft Wondrous Item, detect chaos, detect
evil, detect good, detect law; Price 1,000 gp.

Phylactery of Undead Turning: This item is a boon to any
\character able ro turn undead, allowing him to do so as if his class
jlevel were four levels higher than itactually is.

Moderate necromancy [good]; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item,
\0th-level cleric; Price 11,000 gp.

Pipes of Haunting: This magic item appears ta beasmall set of
\pan pipes. When played by a person who succeeds ona DC.15 Per-
form (wind instruments).check, the pipes create an eerie, spell-
binding mune. Those within 30 feet who hear the tune must suc-
ceed.on.a DC 13 Will save or become frightened for 4 rounds.
Creatures with 6 or more Hit Dice are unaffected. Pipes of haunting.
can be sounded twice a day.

Faint necromancy; CL 4th; Craft Wondrous Item, scare; Price!
6,000 gp; Weight 3 Ib.

Pipes of Pain: These appear to be like any other standard set of.
pipes with nothing to reveal their true nature, When played by
someone who succeeds on a DC 15 Perform (wind instruments)
check, the pipes create a wondrous melody. All within 30 feet
must make.a DC 14. Will save or be fascinated by the sound. (This
is a mind-affecting sonic compulsion.)

As soon.as the piping stops, all those affected are stricken by in-
{tense pain at even the slightest noise. Unless a character is in a
jtotally silent area, she takes 1d4 points of damage per round for
|2d4 rounds. During this time, damage from sonic attacks, such as

sound burst, is doubled. Thereafter, the least noise causes an
affected character. to become shaken (except when she is in a
totally silent area), This hypersensitivity is a curse and therefore
hard to remove (see the bestow curse spell).

Faint enchantment and evocation; CL 6th; Craft Wondrous
Item, creator must have the bardic music class feature, sound burst;
Price 12,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.

Pipes of the Sewers: These wooden pipes appear.ondinary, bur
if the possessor learns the proper tune, he can attract 1d3 rat

iswarmss (see page 239 of the Monster Manual) if rats are within 400
}feet For each $0-foot distance the rats have to travel, there is a 1-
\round delay. The piper must continue playing until the rats appear,
jand when they doso, the piper must make a DC 10 Perform (wind
instruments) check. Success means that they obey the piper's rele-
pathic. commands so long as he continues to play. Failure indicates |
that they turn on the piper. If for any reason the piper ceases play-,

 
 

   

ing,.the rats leave immediately, If they are called again within a,
day, the Perform check DC is 15.
Ifthe rars.are under the control of another erearure, add the HD |
of the controller to. the Perform check DC. Once control is.as-
{sumed, another check is required each round to maintain it ifthe
Jother creature is actively seeking to reassert its control.

Faint conjuration;.CL 2nd; Craft Wondrous Item, charm
animal, summon nature's allyL wild empathy ability; Price 1,150.
gp; Weight 3 Ib.

__ Pipes of Sounding: When played by a character who has the)
| Perform (wind instruments) skill, these pipes create a variety of}
sounds. The figment sounds are the equivalent of ghost sound.

(caster level 2nd),

Faint illusion; CL 2nd; Craft Wondrous Item, ghost sound; Price ,
1,800 gp; Weight 3 Ib.

Portable Hole: A portable hole is a circle of cloth spun from |
ithe webs of a phase spider interwoven with strands of ether and
{beams of starlight. When opened fully, a portable hole is 6 feet in
idiameter, but it can be folded up to be.as small as a pocket hand-.
_kerchief, When spread upon any surface, it causes an extradimen-

sional space 10 feet deep to.come into being. This hole can be
picked up from inside or out by simply taking hold of the edges of.
the cloth and folding it up. Either way, the entrance disappears,
bur anything inside the hole remains,

The only air in the hole is that which enters when the hole is
opened. It contains enough air to supply.one Medium creature or.
two Small creatures for 10 minutes. (See Suffocation, page 304.)
The cloth does not accumulate weight even if its hole is filled
(with gold, for example), Each portable hole opens.on_its.own par-,
ticular nondimensional space. If a bag of holding (see page 248) is
placed within.a portable hole, a rift to the Astral Plane is torn in that
place. Both the bag and the cloth are sucked into the void and for-|
ever lost, If a portable hole is placed within a bag of holding, ir opens
a gate to the Astral Plane. The hole, the bag, and any creatures
within a 10-foot radius are drawn there, the portable hole and hag of
holding being destroyed in the process.

Moderate conjuration; CL 12th; Craft Wondrous Irem. plane
shift; Price 20,000 gp.

Quaal's Feather Token: Each of these items is a small feather
that has a power to suit a special need. The kinds of tokens are
described below. Each token is usable once.

Anchor. A token useful to. moor a craft in water so as to render it
immobile for up to one day.

Bird; A token thatcan be used to delivera small written message
unerringly to.a designated target as would a carrier pigeon. The
token lasts as long as it takes to carry the message.

Fan: A token that forms a huge flapping fan, causing a breeze of
sufficient strength to propel one ship (about 25 mph), This wind is
not cumulative with existing wind speed—if a severe wind is
already blowing, for example, this. wind cannot be added to it to
create a windstorm. The token.can, however, be used to lessen
existing winds, creating an area of relative calm or lighter winds
(but wave size in.a storm is not affected). The fan can be used for
upto 8 hours. It does not function on land,

Swan Boat: A token that forms a swanlike boat capable of
moving on water at a speed of 60 feet. It can carry eight horses and
gear or thirty-two Medium characters or any equivalent. combina-_
tion. The boat lasts for one day.

‘Tree: Atoken that causes a great oak to spring into being (5-foot-
diameter trunk, 60-foot height, 40-foot top diameter). This is. an|
instantaneous effect,

Whip: A token that forms into 2 huge leather whip and wields.

 

  

, itself against any opponent desired just like a,dancing weapon (see
\page.224). The weapon has a +10 base attack bonus, does 1d6+1
{points of damage, has a +1 enhancement bonus on attack and
{damage rolls, and a makes a free grapple attack (with a +15 attack

bonus) ifit hits, The whip lasts no longer than 1 hour.

  
