cous. Because of its particular powers, itcan be contained only in a
flask whose inside has been coated with 1 ounce of salve of slipper
previous page), and each time any of the bonding
agent is poured from the flask, a new-application of the salve of slip-

ness (see th

 

periness must be put in the flask within 1 round to prevent the,

 

remaining glue from adhering to the side of the container. A flask
of sovereign glue, when found, holds anywhere from 1 to 7 ounces.
of the stuff (1ds—1, minimum 4), with the other ounce of the
flask’s capacity taken up by the salve of slipperiness

One ounce of this adhesive covers 1 square foot
urface, bonding virtually any two sub-
stances together in a permanent union
The glue takes 1 round to-set. If the
objects are pulled apart (a move action i)
before that time has
elapsed, that application
of the glue loses its sticki-
ness.and is worthless. If
the glue is allowed to se
then attempting to separate
the two bonded objects has
no effect, except when universal
solvent is applied to the bond.
is dissolved by
universal solvent.

Strong transmutation; CL
20th; Craft Wondrous Item,
make whole; Price 2,400 gp
per ounce

Stone of Alarm: This
stone cube, when given the command word, affixes
itself to any object. If that object is touched thereafter by
anyone who does not first speak that same command word, the
stone emits a piercing screech for 1 hour that.can be heand.up to a
quarter-mile away (assuming no intervening barriers).

Faint abjuration; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, alarm; Price
2,700 gp; Weight 2

Stone of Controlling Earth Elementals: A stone of this
nature is typically an oddly shaped bit of roughly polished rock.
The possessor of such a stone need but utter a few words of sum:
moning, and a Huge earth elemental comes to the summoner. The
summoning words require 1 full round to speak, and in all ways
the stone functions as the summon_monster VII spell. (If sand or
rough, unhewn stone is.the summoning medium, the elemental
that comes is Large instead, and the stone functions as the summon
monster Vspell.) The elemental appears in 1d4 rounds. For
detailed information about elementals, see page 95 of the Monster
Manual. Only one elemental can be summoned at a time, A new
elemental requires a new patch of earth or stone, which cannot be
accessed until after the first elemental disappears (is dispelled, dis-
missed, or slain:

Strong conjuration; CL 13th; Craft Wondrous Item, summon mon:
ster V1, summon monster VU; Price 100,000 gp; Weight 5 Ib,

Stone of Good Luck (Luckstone): This stone is typically a bit
of rough polished agate or some similar mineral. Its possessor
gains a +1 luck bonus on saving throws, ability checks, and skill
checks,

Faint evocation; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, d
20,000 gp.

Stone Horse: Each item of rhis nature appears.to be a full
sized, roughly hewn statue of a horse, carved from some type of
hard stone_A command word brings the steed to life, enabling it
ro carry.a burden and even to attack as if it were a real horse of the
appropriate kind.

A stone horse.can carry 1,000 pounds tirelessly and never needs
to rest or feed, Damage dealt to it can be repaired by first using a
stoneto flesh spell, thus causing the stone horse to become a normal

     
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 

 

 

  

   

 

 

(Sovere’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ine favor; Price

 

 

 

Scarab of
protection

horse that.can be healed normally. When fully healed, it automat:
ically reverts to its stone form, While in its stone form, it can be.
fed gems, healing 1. point of damage for each 50 gp worth.of min:
eral itis given.
There are two sorts of stone horses.
Courser: This item has the statistics of a heavy horse (see page
273 of the Monster Manual), as. well as having hardness 10.
Destrier: This item has the statistics of a heayy.warhorse (see
page 273 of the Monster Manual), as well as having hardness 10
Strong transmutation; CL 14th; Craft Wondrous.
Item, flesh to stone, animate objects; Price 10,000 gp.
(courser) or 14,800 gp (destrier); Weight 6,000 lb
Stone Salve: This ointment has two uses. If
an ounce of it is applied to.the flesh of a petrified
creature, it returns the creature to flesh as the.
stone to flesh spell. fan ounce of itis applied.to the
flesh of a nonpetrified creature, it protects the crea
ture as a stoneskin spell
Strong abjuration and transmutation; CL 13th;
Craft Wondrous Item, flesh to stone, stoneskin
Price 4,000 gp per ounce.
Strand of Prayer Beads: This item
appears.to_be.a normal string of prayer beads
until the owner casts.a.divine spell. Once
that occurs, the owner instantly knows the
powers of the prayer beads and how to
activate them.
Each strand includes two or more special,
beads, each with a different magic power.

 

 
     

 

 

 

Special Bead Type ___ Special Bead Ability

Bead of blessing Wearer can cast bless.

Bead of healing Wearer can cast his choice of cure serious
wounds, remove blindness /deafness, or remove
disease,

Bead of karma Wearer casts his spells at +4 caster level.
Effect lasts 10 minutes.

Wearer can cast chaos hameer, holy smite,
order's wrath, or unholy blight (Will DC 17
partial).

Summons a powerful creature of
appropriate alignment from the Outer Planes
(an angel, devil, etc.) to aid the wearer for
one day. (Ifthe wearer uses the bead of
summons to summon a deity's emissary
frivolously, the deity takes that character's
items and places a geas upon him as
punishment in the very least.)

Bead of wind walking Wearer can.cast.wind walk.

Bead of smiting

    

Bead of summons

A lesser strand of prayer beads has a. bead of blessing and a bead of heal
ing. A strand of prayer beads has a bead of healing, a bead of karma, and
a bead of smiting..A greater strand of prayer beads has a bead of h
bead of karma, a bead of summons, and a bead of v walking.

Each special bead can be used once per day, except for the bead
of summons, which works only once and then becomes nonmagi
cal. The beads of blessing, smiting, and wind walking function.as spell
trigger items; the beads of karma and summons can be activated by
any character capable of casting divine spells. The owner need not,
hold or wear the strand of pmyer beads in any specific location, as.
Jong as. he carries it somewhere on his person.

The power of a special bead is lost if it is removed from the!
strand. Reduce the price of a strand of prayer beads that is missing |
one.or more beads by the following amounts: head of blessing -600
gp, bead of healing 9,000 gp, bead of karma -20,000 gp, bead of smit
ing -16,800 gp, bead of summons —20,000 gp, bead of wind walking
—46,800 gp.

 

   

ealing,a

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
