 
  
   
  
 
 
 

     

Bosk, the Poetic Blade: +2 longsword; ALN; Int 14, Wis 14,Cha
10; Speech, 30 ft. vision and hearing; Ego score 8.

Lesser Powers: Bless 3/day, hold person 3/day..

Personality: Created by.a wizard experimenting with sentience,

Bosk was later. sold by its creator and has changed hands many.

times. Always willing to offer irs opinion, advice, a story, or even.a,
| poem of its own devising, Bosk has never met an owner who was a)
jperfect march, though perhaps a deaf swordwielder would be best.
Moderate divination; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor...
legend lore; Price 15,815 gp.

 

|Vesac, the Deceiver: Luck blade; AL NE; Int 16, Wis 10, Cha 16;
Speech, 60 ft. darkvision and hearing; Ego score 15.

Lesser Powers: Minor image 1/day, major image 1/day, 10 ranks in
Bluff (total modifier +13).

Personality: A powerful and selfish blade, Vesac has served as the
;sveapon_of dozens of petty tyrants and would-be conquerors. The
plure_of its powerful three wishes draws in many who seek to gain{

jpower. wealth, or advance their own agenda. However, Vesac itself
tis only. interested in advancing the tales of its own legend. Despite,
having many wielders over the ages, it continues to hoard its!
wishes, frequently deluding wielders (by using its illusion powers)
into thinking that their desires have been fulfilled.

Strong evocation (if miracle is used); CL 17th; Craft Magic Arms
and Armor, wish or miracle; Price 161,560 gp; Cost 80,780 gp +

5,718 XP.

Zax, Cloak of Kings: Cloak of Charisma+6;AL.LN; Int 10, Wis
\14, Cha 14; Speech, 120 ft. vision and hearing: Ego score 5,

Lesser Powers: Zone of truth 3/day, Item has.10 ranks in Diplo-
macy (total modifier +12) and 10 ranks in Knowledge (history)
\(toral modifier +10).

Personality: This magic cloak has provided advice to royal courts
[for generation after generation, not only the settling of disputes,
but.also with accounts of the foibles of leaders past. Zax,.as this
cape has always been known, is a fine-looking garment of sable
and fur. Like most rulers, Zax itself has grown somewhat stern. and
aloof over the years, though its Ego has never been strong enough,
to dominate its wearer. }

Moderate conjuration; CL 15th; Craft Wondrous Item, eagle's)
splendor; Price 56,500 gp.

In the. process.of crafting a magic item, so many delicate factors
have to be taken into account that occasionally things are bound
to go awry. These small errors are often readily apparent and usu-
sally. show up immediately, Sometimes, however, they are more
jsubtle and don't emerge until days, months, or even years later.
Osher factors can make a magic item go wrong as well—things
ynor the fault of its creatorin any way. The forces of chaos and gen-
eral entropy can cause magic to decay or become corrupted. Time
corrodes all things—even magic. Long exposure to powerful mag-
ical forces, gateways.to other planes, or even the proximity of
other magic items or creatures can alter a magic item in odd ways.
Finally, iems with unpredictable or cursed effects can be created

by the devious intention of spellcasters who are malicious, chaotic,
or simply insane. These are the most dangerous cursed items of all.
Cursed items are magic items with some sort of potentially neg-
.ative impact, Sometimes they're directly bad for the user; some-
jtimes they're just inconvenient. Occasionally they mix bad with
}good, forcing characters to make difficult choices. If you. want to.
Jinclude the chance for cursed items in your game, determine trea-
sure randomly as. usual. Whenever you roll for a magic item, how-
ever, make a second secret d% roll. On a result of 01-05, the item.
generated is cursed in some way. To determine how the item is!
cursed, consult the table below.

Cursep ITEM COMMON Curses
d%

(97-99
"109 Moe than.100 miles from a particular site

  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  

   

Curse

O-1S Delusion

16-35 Opposite effect or target
345 Intermittent functioning
446-60 Requirement
+ 61-75 Drawback

76-90 Completely different effect
91-100 Substitute specific cursed item

Delusion: The user believes the item is what it appears to be,
yet it actually has no magical power other than to deceive. The.
user is mentally fooled into thinking the item is functioning
(making him invisible, emitting lightning bolts..or whatever)
and cannot be convinced otherwise without the help of a remove,
curse spell.

Opposite Effect or Target: These cursed items malfunction, so
{that either they do the opposite of whar the creator intended, or
jthey target the user instead of someone else. For example, eyes of,
{charming with the opposite effect makes targets hostile rather than

charming them. A staff of healing causes wounds, Eyes of petrification
turn the wearer.to stone. A magic arrow curves around to strike the
archer. The interesting point.to keep in mind here is that these
items arent always bad to have. A wand of lightning bolt thar heals
rather than harms can be used as a potent healing item,

Opposite-effect items include weapons that impose penalties
on attack and damage rolls rather than bonuses. Just.as.a.character,

shouldn't necessarily immediately know what the enhancement,
bonus of a noncursed magic item is, she shouldnt immediately |
know that a weapon is cursed. Once she knows, however, the item,
can be discarded unless some sort of compulsion is placed upon it}
that compels the wielder to keep and use it, In such cases, a emove
curs spell is generally needed to get rid of the item.

Intermittent Functioning: The three varieties of intermir-
tent functioning items all function perfectly as described—at
least some of the time. The three varieties are unreliable, depend
ent, and uncontrolled items,

Unreliable: Each time the item is activated, there is a $% chance
(01-05 on d%) that it does not function. At the DM's option, the
failure chance can be altered to be anything from 1% to 10%, de-
pending on the item and the campaign.

Dependent; The item only functions in certain situations, To
determine what the situation is, either select a situation or roll on
the following rable.

 

d% ition
01-03 Temperature below freezing
04-05 _ Temperature above freezing
06-10 During the day
11-15 During the night
16-20 In direct sunlight
21-25 Out of direct sunlight
26-34 Underwater
35-37 Out of water
38-45. Underground
46-55 Aboveground
56-60 Within 10 feet of a random creature type
61-64 Within 10 feet of a random race or kind of creature
65-72 Within 10 feet of an arcane spelicaster
73-80 Within 10 feet of a divine spelicaster
, 81-85 In the hands of a nonspelicaster
86-90 in the hands of a spelicaster 4
91-95 In the hands of a creature of a particular alignment

96. In.the hands of a creature of particular gender
On nonholy days or during particular astrological events
