Uncontrolled: An uncontrolled item occasionally activates at

random times. Roll d% every day, On a result of 01-05 (or what-
ever range the DM decides is appropriate), the item activates at
some random point during that day, Results range from the

humorous, such as when the wearer of a cursed ring of invisibility,
suddenly disappears right in the middle of bargaining in the,
market, to the disastrous, such as when the wielder’s wand of fire-|

\ball discharges in the midst of her friends—er, former friends.
Requirement: In a sense, a command word is a requirement.

Nevertheless, some items have much more stringent requite-.

ments that must be met for them.to be usable. To keep an item
with this kind of curse functioning, one or more of the following
conditions must be met,

* Character must eat twice. as much as normal.

Character must sleep twice as much as normal,

Character must undergo a specific quest (one time only, and
then item functions normally thereafter).

Character must sacrifice (destroy) 100 gp worth of valuables per
day.

items each week.

Character must swear fealty to a particular noble or his family.
Character must discard all other magic items.

Character must worship a particular deity.

Character must change her name toa specific name. (The item
only works for characters of that name.)

not of that.class already.

Character must have a minimum number of ranks in a particu-
lar skill.

Character must sacrifice some part of her life energy (2 points
of Constitution) one time. If the character gets the Constitution
points back (such as from a restoration spell), the item ceases
functioning. (The item does not cease functioning if the char-
acter receives a Constitution increase. caused by level gain, a
wish, or the use of a magic item.)

Item must be cleansed with holy water each day.

Item must be used to kill a living crearure each day.

Item must be bathed in volcanic lava once per month,

for its current possessor.

Item must draw blood when wielded (weapons only). It can't be
put away or exchanged for another weapon until it has scored a
hit

Item must have a particular spell cast upon it each day (such as
bless, atonement, or animate objects).

Requirements are so dependent upon suitability to the item that
ithey should never be determined randomly. An item with a re-
(quirement that is also intelligent often imposes its requirement

through its personality, If the requirement is not met, the item
ceases to function, If it is met, usually the item functions for one

day before the requirement must be met again (although some
requirements are one time only, others monthly, and still others
continuous),

Drawback: Items with drawbacks are usually still beneficial to
the possessor (for instance, a weapon swith an enhancement bonus
continues to benefit its wielder in. combat), but they.also carry
some negative aspect. You might think of them as “give and take”
.items. Although sometimes drawbacks.occur only when.the item
is used (or held, in the case of some items such as weapons), usu:
jally che drawback remains with the character for as long as she has
{the item.

Roll onthe table below to generate a.drawback that (unless oth-
erwise indicated) remains in effect as long as the item is in the
character's possession,

Character must add a specific class at the next opportunity if

Character must sacrifice (destroy) 2,000 gp worth of magic}

Irem must be used at least once a day, or it wont function again |

 

d%, Drawback +
01-04 —Character’s hair grows 1 inch longer. Only happens once. ,
05-09 Character either shrinks 1/2 inch (01-50 on d%) or. grows |
that much taller (51-100), Only happens once.
. 10-13 ‘Temperature around item is 10°F cooler than normal.
114-17 Temperature around item is 10°F warmer than normal
,18-21 — Character's hair color changes.
22-25 _ Character’s skin color changes.
26-29 Character now bears some identifying mark (tattoo, weird
J glow, or the like). ]
30-32 Character's gender changes.
33-34 Character's race or kind changes.
35 Character is afflicted with a random disease that cannot be.
cured.
36-39 Item continually emits a disturbing sound (moaning,
weeping, screaming, cursing, insults).
40. Item looks ridiculous (garishly colored, silly shape, glows
+ bright pink, . . .)
. 41-45 Character becomes selfishly possessive about the item,
146-49 Character becomes paranoid about losing the item and
afraid of damage occurring to.it.
50-51 Character’s alignment changes.
52-54 Character must attack nearest creature (9% chance [01-05
‘on d%} each day)
55-57 Character is stunned for 144 rounds once item function is
finished (or randomly, 1/day).
58-60 _ Character’s vision is blurry (-2 penalty.on attack rolls,
saves, and skill checks requiring vision). |
61-64 Character gains one negative level.
65 Character gains two negative levels,
66-70 Character must make a Will save each day or take 1 point of
Intelligence damage.
71-75 Character must make a Will save each day or take.1_ point of
Wisdom damage.
76-80 Character must make a Will save each day of take 1 point of
Charisma damage.
81-85 Character must make a Fortitude save each day or take }
point of Constitution damage,
86-90 Character must make a Fortitude save each day or take 1
point of Strength damage.
91-95 Character must.make.a Fortitude save each day or take}

point of Dexterity damage.
96 Character is polymorphed into a specific creature (59%.
chance [01-05 on 43] each day).

7 Character cannot cast arcane spells.

98 Character cannot cast divine spells,

99 Character cannot cast any spells.

100 DM either picks one of the above that's appropriate or

creates a drawback specifically for that item.

Completely Different Effect; The DM should choose a nega-
tive effect for the item, perhaps using the specific cursed items
(see below) as examples, The item may seem to be the item that
was originally determined, but at some juncture it displays differ-
ent properties altogether.

SPECIFIC CURSED ITEMS

‘The items on Table 7—31: Specific Cursed Items are provided as |
examples.of cursed items. They are given creation prerequisites. |
should someone want to intentionally create them (although that) i

idoes not need to be the origin of the item if you.choose other-|

wise). Note, however, nvo exceptions; The crystal hypnosis ball and |
the bag of devouring cannot be created by any known means. The |

tbag.of devouring is a creature, and the crystal hypnosis ball is the tool

of powerful NPCs such as liches.

|_Asimple detect magic spell yields a misleading aura and strength,

often indicating that the item is a noncursed item of similar sort

 
