Selling Cursed items
Suppose you have planted an amulet of inescapable Jocation in a trea-
sure hoard, and the characters have snapped it.up—but they
believe it to be an amulet of proof against detection and location.

Now, the characters are back in town and divvying up treasure. ,
They decide to sell the amulet, expecting to get half of the hefty,

35,000 gp market price. What.do you do?

Alternatively, the characters know that the item is cursed and,

want to try to sell it off as its much more expensive
noncursed version. What happens next?

First, remember thar the prospective buyer of the
item has a. chance of knowing the item is.cursed. As
a. good rule of thumb, give the buyer the same 1%
chance per level as any caster of the identify spell. In
some cases, the buyer may have access to analyze
dweomer, which always identifies a cursed item for
what it is A buyer may be willing to pay to have
the spell cast, or may demand that the characters
pay. for such a casting, before he will go through
with the deal.

The characters should be aware (although it's
not up to you to tell them) that trying to dupe
someone into buying a cursed item is an evil act.

They should also consider the fact that some-
one who bought an item from them that
turned out to be cursed will usually seek [P

\teparations ranging from a full refund to.
bloody, deadly vengenance.

The misty past holds many secrets. Great wizards and
| powerful clerics, not to mention the deities them-
selves, have used spells and created items that are
beyond the ken of present-day knowledge. These
items survive as artifacts, but their means of cre-

ation are long gone

Artifacts are extremely powerful. Rather than merely another
form of magic equipment, they are the sorts of legendary relics
that whole campaigns can be based on. Each could be the center.of
a whole set of adventures—a quest to recover it, a fight against
opponent wielding it,a mission to cause its destruction, and so on.

No table has been included to randomly generate specific arti
facts, since these items should only.enter a campaign through
deliberate choice on your part.

MINOR ARTIFACTS
Minor artifacts are not necessarily unique items. Even so, they are
magic items that no longer can be created, at least by common
mortal means.

Minor Artifact Descriptions
Described below-isaselection of the most well-known (not neces-
sarily the most numerous) minor artifacts.

Book of Exalted Deeds: This holy book is sacred to divine
spellcasters of good alignment (LG, NG, CG), Study of the work re-
quites one week, bur upon completion a good spellcaster gains a
+1 inherent bonus to Wisdom and one experience lewel—receiv-
ing enough XP to put the character's XP toral midway between the
minimum needed for his new (higher) level and the minimum
needed for the level beyond that.

Divine spellcasters neither good nor.evil (LN, N.CN) lose
2d6x1,000 XP for perusing the work. Evil divine spellcasters (LE,
NE, CE) lose twice that amount. In addition, they have to atone
(see the atonement spell) in order to gain further experience.

Nonspellcasters who handle or read the book are unaffected.
Arcane spellcasters who read it take 1 point of permanent Intelli-

 
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  

siledarkness

gence drain and lose 1d6x1,000 XP unless they make a DC 15
Will save.

Except.as indicated above, the writing in a book of exalted deeds
cant be distinguished from any other magic book, libram, tome,,

lor so on until perused. Once read, the book vanishes, and the
same character can never benefit from reading another book of

exalted deeds.

Strong evocation [good]; CL 19th; Weight 3 Ib.

Book of Infinite Spells: This work bestows upon any charac-,
ter of any class the ability to use the spells within its page:
However, any character not already able to use spells gains
one negative level for as long as the book is in her posses-
sion or while she uses its power. A hook of infinite spells
contains 1d8+22 pages, The nature of each page is.
determined by a dice roll: 01-50, arcane spell;
. > 51-100, divine spell.

‘. Determine the exact spell by_using the
tables for determining major scroll
spells (the third column on Table
7-22: Sctoll Spell Levels, along with
Table 2-23; Arcane Spell Scrolls.and.
Table. 7=24: Divine Spell Scrolls).
Once a page is turned, it. can never be
flipped back—paging through a book of
infinite spells is a. one-way. trip. Lf the book is
closed, it always opens again to the page it
was on before the book was.closed..When|
the last page is turned, the book vanishes.)

Once per day the owner of the book can
cast.the spell to which the book is opened. If
that spell happens to be one that is on the.char-)
acter's class spell list, she can cast it up to four
times per day. The pages cannot be ripped out
without destroying the book. Similarly, the spells.

cannot be cast as scroll spells, nor.can.they be.
copied into a spellbook—their magic.is bound
up permanently within the book itselE.

The owner of the book need not have the book on her person in
order to use its power. The book can be stored in.a place of safety
while the owner is adventuring and still allow its owner to cast
spells by means of its pov

Each time a spell is cast, there is.a chance that the energy con-
nected with its use causes the page to. magically turn despite all
precautions. The owner knows this and may even benefit from the
turning by gaining access to a new spell. The chance of a page
turning depends on the spell the page contains and what sort of
spellcaster the owner is.

 

 
 

 

Condition Chance of Page Turning
Caster employing a spell usable by own class and level 10%
Caster employing a spell not usable by own class and level 20%
Nonspelicaster employing divine spell 25%
Nonspelicaster employing arcane spell 30%

‘Treat each spell use as if a scroll.were being employed, for pur-
poses of determining casting time, spell failure, and so on.

Strong (all schools); CL 18th; Weight 3 Ib.

Book of Vile Darkness: This is a work of ineffable evil—meat
and drink to divine spellcasters of that alignment (LE, NE, To}
fully consume the contents requires one week of study. Once.this
has been.accomplished, an evil spellcaster gains a +1 inherent
bonus to Wisdom and one experience level—receiving enough |
XP to put the character's XP rotal midway between the minimum,
needed for his new (higher) level and the minimum needed for
the level beyond thar.

AllJawful neutral, neutral, or chaotic neutral characters who
touch the book take 5d4 points of damage, and reading its pages

  

 
