causes them to become evil (Will DC 13.negates),.Such converts Each time.a.card is taken from the deck, it is replaced (making,
immediately seek out an evil cleric to confirm their new align- it possible to draw the same card twice) unless the draw is. the |
ment (with an atonement spell), jester or the fool, in which case the card is discarded from the
Divine spellcasters neither good nor evil (LN,.N, CN) who read pack. A deck of many.things contains 22 cards. To simulate the magic.|
the book either lose 2d6x1,000 XP (01-50 on d%) or become evil lig you may_want to use tarot cards, as indicated in
without benefit from the book (51-100), Good divine spell- the.second column of the accompanying
casters (LG, NG, CG) perusing the pages of the book of vile table. If no tarot deck is available, substitute
darkness have to make a DC 16 Fortitude save or die. If 9 ordinary playing cards instead, as indicated
{they do nor die, they must succeed on.a DC 15 Will E inthe third column. The effects of each cand,
save.or suffer from a continuous confusion effect summarized on the table, are fully described
(per the insanity spell). In the latter event, even if below.
the save is successful, the character loses 20,000 Balance: As in “weighed in the balance and.
XP, minus 1,000 for each paint of Wisdom he found wanting,” the character must change toa
has, (This calculation cannot result in an XP radically different alignment If the character,
gain.) fails to act according to the new alignment, she,
Other characters of good alignment take gains a negative level.
5d6 points of damage from just handling the Comet: The character must single-handedly
jtome. If such a character looks inside, there is defeat the next hostile monster or monsters
\an.80% chance that an evil outsider attacks the encountered, or the benefit is lost. If successful, .
character that night. the character gains enough XP to attain the
Strong evocation [evil]; CL 19th; Weight next experience level.
3 Ib. Donjon: This card signifies imprisonment—
Deck of Many Things: A deck of many things . either by the imprisonment spell or by some
(both beneficial and baneful) is usually found t powerful being, at the DM's option. All gear
in a box or leather pouch. Each deck contains @ . and spells are stripped from the victim in
number of cards or plaques made of ivory Om any_case. Whether these items are recover-
vellum. Each is engraved with glyphs, charage . able is, likewise, up.to.the DM. Draw no|
|ters, and sigils. As soon as one of these cards ig TTT more cards. |
idrawn from the pack, its magic is bestowed 7] Ewryale; The medusalike visage of this card |
}upon.the person. who drew it, for better or brings a curse that only the fates card ora}
[worse deity can remove. The ~1 penalty on all saving |
‘The character with a deck of many things who throws is otherwise permanent |
vwishes to draw a card must announce how Fates: This card enables the character to avoid |
many cards she will draw before she begins even an instantaneous occurrence if so desired,
Cards must be.drawn within 1 hour of each other, for the fabric of reality is unraveled and
and a character can never again draw from this deck respun. Note that it does not enable something
any more cards than she has announced. If the char- to happen. It can only stop something from
acter does not willingly draw her allotted number (or happening or reverse a past occurrence. The
if she is somehow prevented from doing so), the cards reversal is only for the character who drew the card;
flip out of the deck on their own. Exception: If the jester is other party members may have co endure the situation.
drawn, the possessor of the deck may elect to draw two addi- Deck of Flames: Hot anger, jealousy, and envy are but a few of
tional cards. many thingy the possible motivational forces for the enmity. The

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
 
  
    

Deck oF Many THINGS

Plaque Tarot Card Playing Card Summary of Effect

Balance Xi. justice Two of spades Change alignment instantly.

Comet Two of swords Two of diamonds Defeat the next.monster you meet to gain one level. j
Donjon Four of swords Ace of spades You are imprisoned.

Euryale Ten of swords Queen of spades =1 penalty on all saving throws henceforth

The Fates Three of cups Ace of hearts ‘Avoid any situation you choose . .. once.

Flames. XV. The Devil Queen of clubs Enmity between you and an outsider,

Fool 0. The Fool Joker (with trademark) Lose 10,000 experience points and you must draw again.
Gem Seven of cups Two of hearts Gain your choice of twenty-five pieces of jewelry or fifty gems.
Idiot Two of pentacles Two of clubs Lose Intelligence (permanent drain). You may draw again.
Jester Xi. The Hanged Man. Joker (without trademark) Gain 10,000 XP or two more draws from the deck.

Key V. The Hierophant Queen of hearts Gain a major magic weapon,

Knight Page of swords Jack of hearts Gain the service of a 4th-level fighter.

Moon XVIIL The Moon Queen of diamonds You are granted 1d4 wishes.

Rogue Five of swords Jack of spades ‘One.of your friends turns. against you.

Ruin XVI. The Tower King of spades Immediately lose all wealth and real property.

Skull XIll. Death Jack of clubs Defeat dread wraith or be forever destroyed.

Star XVII. The Star Jack of diamonds Immediately gain a +2 inherent bonus to one ability score.
Sun XIX. The Sun King of diamonds Gain beneficial medium wondrous item and 50,000 XP.
Talons Queen of pentacies ‘Ace of clubs All magic items you possess disappear permanently.
Throne Four of staves King of hearts Gain a.+6 bonus on Diplomacy checks plus a small keep.
Vizier 1X. The Hermit Ace of diamonds Know the answer to your next dilemma.

The Void Eight of swords King of clubs Body functions. but soul is trapped elsewhere.

 
