 

turning, they serve the wielder as if called by a summon monster
V spell cast at 20th level.

Summon Nightshade: Once per month, the staff can. summon a

nightcrawler nightshade (see page 195 of the Monster Manual
that serves the wielder as if called by a summon monster IX spell.
cast at 20th level.

Shadow Form; Three times_per day the wielder can become.aj,
living shadow, with all the movement powers granted by the

gaseous form spell. 1
Shadow Bolt: Three times per day the staff can project_a_ray |
attack thar deals 10dé6 points of cold damage to a single target.
The shadow bolt has arange.of 100 feet.

The Shield of Prator: A hero of old, the paladin Praror bore
this relic in many a valiant battle. The Shield of Prator disappeared
when Prator fell in the Bartle of the Three Hells, although it has
reportedly surfaced briefly from time to time since then. This +5
Jarge shield, emblazoned with the symbol of the sun, allows the

,wielder to cast spells as if she were a 20th-level paladin with a}
Wisdom score of 20. The spells gained are cumulative with any.)
existing spells per day that the character might have, even if sh
already a paladin, The Shield of Prator also grants spell resistance 15
to its wielder. It absorbs the first 10 points of damage from any
energy attack (fire, cold, acid, electricity, or sonic). In return for
all this, once per year the shield’s owner must undertake a quest
(no saving throw to avoid) at the behest of a lawful good deity.

A character who is evil or chaoric (LE, NE, CE, C)
four negative levels if she attempts to use this artifact. Although
jthese negative levels never results in actual level loss, they remain
as long as the shield is in hand and cannot be overcome in any way
(including restonation spells). The negative levels disappear when
the shield is stowed or leaves the wearer's possession.

The Sword of Kas: The vampire Kas was the dreaded lieu
tenant of Vecna. He used this mighty blade, created by his master,
to betray and attack the archlich, cutting off his hand and eye in a

 

  

 

  

   

i, CG) gains

 

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

MAGIC ITEM GOLD PIECE VALUES

Many factors must be considered when determining the price of magic
items you invent. The easiest way to come up with a price is to match
the new item to an item priced in this chapter and use its price as a
guide. Otherwise, use the guidelines summarized on Table 7-33
Estimating Magic Item Gold Piece Values.

Multiple Similar Abilities: For items with multiple similar abilities
that don't take up space on a character's body (see Magic Items on the
Body, page 214), use the following formula: Calculate the price of the
single most costly ability, then add 75% of the value of the next most
costly ability, plus one-half the value of any other abilities. (The many
spell-like powers of a staff of power are a good example of multiple simi:
lar abilities)

Multiple Different Abilities: Abilities such as an attack roll bonus or
saving throw bonus and a spell-like function are not similar, and their
values are simply added together to determine the cost. For items that
do take up a space on a character's body (such as a ring or a necklace),
each additional power not only has no discount but instead has a 50%
increase in price. A belt of Strength +4 and Dexterity +4 is more valuable
than a belt of Strength worn with gauntlets of Dexterity, since it takes up
only one space on a character's body.

O-Level Spells: When multiplying spell levels to determine value, O-
level spells should be treated as 1/2 level.

Other Considerations: Once you have a final cost figure, reduce that
number if either of the following conditions applies

—ltem Requires Skill to Use: Some items require a specific skill
(such as Perform for a musical instrument) to get them to function.
This factor should reduce the cost about 10%

 

  

 

 

 

terrible battle before Veena destroyed him, Only his sword sur-
vived, and itis said to forever seek vengeance against Vecna, The
Sword of Kas is.a +6 unholy keen vorpal longsword. It granrs.the
wielder a+10 enhancement bonus to Strength, The sword isintel.
ligent (Int 15, Wis 13, Cha 16, Ego 34) and chaotic evil. It can be
used to cast the following spells, once per day each: call lightning
(10d6 points of damage, Reflex DC 14 half), blasphemy, and unh
low. Once per week itcan be used to slay living

 

      

CREATING MAGIC TFEMS

 

To create magic items, spellcasters use special fears, They invest
time, money, and their own personal energy (in the form of expe-
rience points) in an item's creation. For details on creating the dif
ferent types of magic items, see the appropriate section below.as
well as the information on item creation feats in Chapter 5; Feats,
in.the Player's Handbook.

Note thar all items have prerequisites in their descriptions
\These prerequisites must be met for the item to be created, M
sof the time, they rake the form of spells that must be known by the

item's creator (although access through another magic item or
spellcaster is allowed

While item creation costs are handled in detail elsewhere, note

that normally the rwo primary factors are.the caster level of the
creator and the level of the spell or spells putinto.the item. A cre:
ator can create an item ata lower caster level than her own, but
never lower than the minimum level needed to cast. the needed.
spell. For example,.a.15th-level wizard could craft.a wand of fireball
at 10th caster level, or even as low as Sth level (the minimum,
caster level for fireball,a 3rd-level spell), bur no lower. If she did.

this, the fireball would in all ways be treated as if the.caster was of
the lower specified level (for damage, range, and so.on). Using
metamagic feats, a caster can place spells in items at a higher level

than normal. For example, a caster could heighten a spell’s level to

 

 

 

—item Requires Specific Class or Alignment to Use: Even more

restrictive than re
Prices presented in the magic item descriptions in this book (the
gold piece value following the item's caster level) are the market value,
which is generally twice what it costs the creator to make the item.
Since different classes get access to

levels, the prices for two characters to make the same item might
actually be different. Take hold person, for example. A cleric casts it as
a 2nd-level spell, so a cleric-created wand of hold person costs 2 (2nd-
level spell) x 3 (3rd-level caster) x 750 gp, divided in half, or 2,250 gp.
However, a wizard casts hold person as a 3rd-level spell, so her wand
costs 3 (3rd-level spell) x 5 (Sth-level caster) x 750 gp, divided in half,
or 5,625 gp. A sorcerer also casts hold person as a 3rd-level spell, but
he doesn't get the spell until 6th level, so his wand costs 3 (3rd-level
spell) x 6 (6th-level caster) x 750 gp, divided in half, or 6,750 gp. The
wand is only worth two times what the caster of lowest possible level
{in this case, the cleric) can make it for, however, so the market price
of a wand of hold person is 4,500 gp, no matter who makes it

You'll notice, however, that not all the items presented here adhere
to these formulas directly. The reasons for this are several, First and
foremost, these few formulas aren't enough to truly gauge the exact
differences between, say, a ring of fire resistance and boots of speed—two
very dissimilar items. Each of the magic items presented here was
examined and modified based on its actual worth. The formulas only
provide a starting point. The pricing of scrolls assumes that, whenever
possible, a wizard or cleric created it. Potions and wands follow the
formulas exactly. Staffs follow the formulas closely, and other items
require at least some DM judgment calls. Use good sense when
assigning prices, using the items in this book as examples

   

ring a skill, this limitation cuts the cost by 309

tain spells at different

 

 

 

 

 
