  
 
 

   
  
   
 
 

       

TABLE 7-32: SUMMARY OF MAGiCc ITEM CREATION Costs

 

    
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
    
    
 
    

Spell Component Costs ——

 

Magic Item Feat Item Cost Material? xe? Supplies Cost Base Price*
Armor Craft Magic Masterwork armor Cost x 50 50 (usually none) 1/2 the value Value on
Arms and Armor (usually none) x Sep ‘on Table 7-2 Table 7-2

Shield Craft Magic Masterwork shield x 50 (usuallynone) x 50 (usually none) _1/2 the value Value on

Arms and Armor x5 gp on Table 7-2 Table 7-2

Weapon Craft Magic Masterwork weapon x50 (usuallynone) x 50 (usuallynone) _1/2 the value Value on

Arms and Armor xSgp on Table 7-9 Table 7-9

Potion Brew Potion. - Cost (usuallynone) Cost (usually none) 1/2 the value Value.on.
on Table 7-2 Table 7-2

Ring Forge Ring _ x50 x50 5 gp Special, see Special, see
Table 7-33 Table 7-33

Rod Craft Rod ; x 50 (often none) % 50 (often none) _ Special. see Special,.see
Table 7-33 Table 7-33 |

Scroll Scribe Scroll = Cost (usually none) Cast (usually none) ‘1/2 the value Value on
‘on Table 7-2 Table 7-2

Staff Craft Staff Mastenwork x 50/(# of charges xS50xSgp/(# of See page 287 ___See page 287

quarterstaff (300 gp) used to activate spell) _ charges used to activate spell)

Wand Craft Wand - «50 x50 5 gp 12x 375. 375%
level of spell x level of spell x
level of caster level of caster

Wondrous Item Craft Wondrous. * % 50 (usually none) x50 (usually none) Special, see Special, see

Item xSgp Table 7-33 Table 7—33

1 Rods usable as weapons, such as a.rod of flailing, must include the masterwork weapon cost.
2 This cost |s.only for spells activated by the item that have material or XP components. Having a spell with a costly component as a prerequisite
does.not automatically incur this cost. For instance, goggles of minute seeing uses true seeing as a prerequisite, but the goggles don't actually

activate a.use of the spell
|3.if purchasing a staff, the buyer pays 5 x the XP value in gold pieces.

|4.A character creating an item pays 1/25 the base price in experience points.
S.Some items have additional value, such as the mattock of the titans. This additional value comes from an item cost such as that for the mattock's

masterwork warhammer.

‘An item's market price is the sum of the item cost, spell component costs, and the base price.

produces enough hide fora single suit of masterwork hide armor
fora creature one size category smaller than the dragon, By-select-
ing only choice scales and bits of hide, an armorsmith can produce
one suit of masterwork banded mail for a creature two sizes.

smaller, one suit of masterwork half-plate for a creature three sizes.
smaller, or one masterwork breastplate or suit of full plate for a,
creature four sizes smaller. Jn each case, enough hide is available.

to produce a small or large masterwork shield in addition to the
armor, provided that the dragon is Large or larger.

Because dragonhide armor isnt made of metal, druids can wear
it without penalty.

Dragonhide armor costs double what masterwork armor of that
type ordinarily costs, but it takes no longer to make than ordinary
armor of that.type.

Dragonhide has 10 hit points pet inch of thickness and hard-

pness.10.

Iron, Cold: This iron mined deep underground, known for its
effectiveness against fey creatures, is forged at a lower tempera-
ture to preserve its delicate properties. Weapons made of cold iron
cost twice as much to make as their normal counterparts, Also, any
magical enhancements cost an additional 2,000 gp. For example, a
+2 longswoni made of cold iron would cost 10,330 gp, because the
price doubles for the longsword itself (15 gp to 30 gp), the +2
enhancement bonus costs §,000 gp, and enhancing cold iron costs
an additional 2,000 gp. (The price includes 300 gp for the master-

.work component.)

Items without metal parts cannot be made from.cold iron, An
jarrow.could be made of cold iron, buta.quarterstaff could not.
| _A double weapon that has only half of it made of cold iron

increases its cost by. 50%. A nvo-bladed sword with one.end of cold
siron.and.the other end steel would cost 150 gp.
Cold iron has 30 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 10,
Mithral: Mithral is a very rare silvery, glistening metal that is.

   

lighter than iron but just as hard. When worked like steel, it be-
comes a wonderful material from which to create armor.and is
occasionally used for other items as well. Most mithral armors are
one category lighter than normal for purposes of movement and
other limitations (for example, whether a barbarian can use her
fast movement ability while wearing the armor or not), Heavy
armors are treated as medium, and medium armors are treated as
light, bur light armors are still treated as light. Spell failure
chances for armors and shields made from mithral are decreased
by 10%, maximum Dexterity bonus is increased by 2, and armor
check penalties are lessened by 3 (to a minimum of 0)

An item made from mithral weighs half as much as the same
item made from other metals. In the case of weapons, this lighter
weight does not change a weapon’ size category or the ease with
which it can be wielded (whether itis light, one-handed, or two-
handed). Irems not primarily of metal are not meaningfully af-
fected by being partially made of mithral. (A longsword can be a
mithral weapon, while. scythe.cannot be.

Weapons or armors fashioned from mithral are always master-
work items as well; the masterwork cost is included in the prices
given below.

Mithral has 30 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 15,

Type of Mithral Item Item Cost Modifier
Light armor +1,000 gp
Medium armor +4.000 gp |
Heavy armor +9,000 gp
Shield +1,000 gp
Other items +500 gp/lb.

Silver, Alchemical: A complex process involving metallurgy

\and alchemy_can bond silver to a. veapon made of steel so that it

bypasses the damage reduction of creatures such as lycanthropes.
