Taste 7-33; EstimatinG Macic Item Goto Piece VALUES

Effect

Ability bonus (enhancement)
Armar bonus (enhancement)
Bonus spell

‘AC bonus (deflection)

‘AC bonus (other)’

Natural armor bonus (enhancement).
Save bonus (resistance)

Save bonus (other)?

Skill bonus (competence)
Spell resistance

Weapon bonus (enhancement)
Spell Effect

Single use, spell completion
Single use, use-activated

50 charges, spell trigger
Command word

Use-activated or continuous
Special

Charges per day

Uncustomary space limitation?
No space limitation*

Multiple different abilities
Charged (50 charges)
Component

Armor, shield, or weapon

Spell has material component cost
Spell has XP cost

Base Price

Bonus squared x 1,000 gp
Bonus squared x 1,000 gp
Spell level squared x 1,000 gp
Bonus squared x 2,000 gp
Bonus squared x 2,500 gp
Bonus squared x 2,000 gp

Example
Gloves of Dexterity +2

+1 chainmail

Pearl of power

Ring of protection +3

loun stone, dusty rose prism
Amulet. of natural armor +1.

Bonus squared x 1,000 gp Cloak of resistance +5
Bonus squared x 2,000 gp Stone of good luck
Bonus squared x 100 gp Cloak of elvenkind
10,000 gp per point over SR 12; SR 13 minimum. Mantle of spell resistance
Bonus squared x 2,000 gp +1 longsword

Base Price Example

Spell level x caster level x 25 gp Scroll of haste

Spell level x caster level x 50 gp Potion. of cure light wounds
Spell level x caster level x 750 gp Wand of fireball

Spell level x caster level x 1,800 gp Cape of the mountebank
Spell level x caster level x 2,000 gp? Lantern of revealing
Base Price Adjustment Example

Divide by (5 divided by charges per day) Boots of teleportation

Multiply entire cost by 1.5

Multiply entire cost by 2

Multiply higher item cost by 2

1/2 unlimited use base price

Extra Cost

Add cost of masterwork item.

Add directly into price of item per charge*
Add 5 gp per 1 XP per charge®

Helm of teleportation
Joun stone

Helm of brilliance
Ring of the ram
Example

+1 composite longbow:
Wand of stoneskin
Ring of three wishes

Spell Level: A O-level spell is half the value of a 1st-level spell for determining price.

1 Such as a luck, insight, sacred, or profane bonus.

2 Ifa continuous item has an effect based on a spell with a duration measured in. rounds, multiply the cost by 4, If the duration of the spell is.1
minute/level, multiply the cost by 2, and if the duration is 10 minutes/level, multiply the cost by 1.5. If the spell has a 24-hour duration or greater,

divide the cost in half.
3 See the sidebar on Body Slot Affinities, page. 288.

4 See Magic Items on the Body, page 214. Basically, an item that does not take up one of the spaces on a body costs double.
5 if item is continuous or unlimited, not charged, determine cost as if it had 100 charges. if it has some_daily limit, determine as if it had SO charges.

On a successful attack with a silvered weapon, the wielder takes |
a1 penalty on the damage roll (with the usual minimum of 1

point of damage). The alchemical silvering process cant be applied
to nonmetal items, and it doesn't work on rare metals such as
adamantine, cold iron, and mithral.

Alchemical silver has 10 hit points per inch of thickness and
hardness 8

‘Type of Alchemical Silver Item Item Cost Modifier
Ammunition +2gp
Light weapon +20 gp

+90 gp
+180 gp

‘One-handed weapon, or one head of a double weapon
Two-handed weapon, or both heads of a double weapon

CREATING MAGIC ARMOR

‘To create magic armor, acharacter needs a heat source and some
iron, wood, or leatherworking tools. He also needs a supply of
materials, the most obvious being the armor or the pieces of the
armor to be assembled. Armor to be made into magic armor must
be masterwork armor, and the masterwork cost is added to the
base price to determine final market value. Additional magic sup-
plies costs for the materials are subsumed in the.cost for creating
the magic. armor—half the base price presented on.the tables in
jthis. chapter.

Creating magic armor has a special prerequisite: The creator's
{caster level must be at least three times the enhancement bonus.of
the armor. Thus, a 6th-level creator can make a +2 breastplate, a 9th-

level creator can create the same breastplate and make it +3, anda

1sth-level caster can make it +5. If an item has both an enhance-

ment bonus and a special ability (such as.cold resistance), the
higher of the two caster level requirements must be met.

Magic armor or a magic shield must have at least a +1 enhance-
ment bonus to have any of the abilities listed on Table 7-5: Armor
Special Abilities and Table 7-6: Shield Special Abilities. A charac-
ter. cant.create, for example, simply shadow chainmail, In order to
have a special ability, the chainmail needs first to have an enhance-
ment bonus of at least +1

If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the armor, the
creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the
spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard), must provide any material
components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs
required for the spells.The act of working on the armor triggers the
prepared spells, making them unayailable for casting during each day
of the armor's creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from
his. currently prepared spells, just.as if they had been cast.)

Creating some armor may entail other prerequisites beyond or
other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions on. pages
217-221 for details,

Crafting magic armor requires one day for each 1,000 gp. value ,
of the base price. A suit.of +1 chainmail has an item cost of 300 gp}
and a base price of 1,000 gp. It takes one day to craft

Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Magic Arms and. Armor.)

CREATING MAGIC WEAPONS
\To.create.a magic weapon,a character needs a heat source and!
some iron, wood, or leatherworking tools. She also needs a supply
lof materials, the most obvious being the weapon or the pieces of
the weapon to be assembled, Only a masterwork weapon can

 
