  
  
   
  
    
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
  
  
  
  
   
 

 
       

become a magic weapon, and the masterwork cost cost is added to
the total cost to determine final market value, Additional magic
supplies costs for the materials are subsumed in the cost for creat-
ing the magic weapon—half the base price given on Table 7-9:
Weapons, according to the weapon's total effective bonus.

Creating a magic weapon has a special prerequisite: The cre-|
,ator's caster level must be at Jeast three times the enhancement)
[bonus of the weapon. Thus, a éth-level creator can make a +2 long-|
Laword, a 9th-level creator can create the same sword and make it+3,)
jand.a 1Sth-level caster. can make it+5, If an item has both an!

jenhancement bonus and a special ability (such as ghost touch),
the higher of the two caster level requirements must be met.

A magic weapon must have at least a+1 enhancement bonus to
have any of the abilities listed on Table 7-14 or Table 7-15. A char-
acter can't create, for example, simply a keen rapier. A keen rapier
needs an enhancement bonus of at least +1

If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the weap-

jon, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must,
\ know: the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) but need not pro-|
| vide any material components or focuses the spells require, not are

any XP costs inherent in a prerequisite spell incurred in the cre-
ation of the item. The act of working on the weapon triggers the
prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each
day of the weapons creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended
from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)

At the time of creation, the creator must decide if the weapon
iglows or not as a side-effect of the magic imbued within it. This

{decision does not affect the price or the creation time, but once
{the item is finished, the decision is binding.

|—Crearing magic double-headed weapons is meated as cteating
[two weapons when determining cost, time, XP. and special abili-
\ties. For example, » dire flail could have a +1 flaming head and a +3
disruption head.

Creating some weapons may entail other prerequisites beyond
or.other than spellcasting, See the individual descriptions on
pages 223-229 for details.

Crafting a magic weapon requires one day for each 1,000 gp
value of the base price. A +2 longswond has an item cost of 315 gp_
and a base price of 8,000 gp. It.takes eight days to craft, 4

Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Magic Arms and Armor.

CREATING POTIONS

The creator of a potion needs a level working surface and at least a

few containers in which to mix liquids, as well as a.source of heat

to boil the brew. In addition, he needs ingredients. The costs for

materials and ingredients are subsumed in the cost for brewing

the potion—25 gp x the level of the spell x the level of the caster.
<All ingredients and materials used to brew.a. potion must be fresh
{and unused. The character must pay the full cost for brewing each
jpotion. (Economies of scale do not apply.)

The imbiber of the potion is both the caster and the target;
therefore, spells such as shield other cannot be stored in potion
form. Spells with a range of personal cannot be made into potions,
so spells such as shield never exist in potion form.

The creator must have prepared the spell to be placed in the po-
tion (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and
must provide any material component or focus the spell requires.
If casting the spell would reduce the caster’s XP total, he pays the
XP cost upon beginning the brew in addition to the XP cost for

«making the potion itself Material components are consumed
(when he begins working, but a focus is not. (A focus used in brew-
}ing.apotion.can be reused.) The act of brewing triggers the pre-
J pared spell, making it unavailable for casting until the character
{has rested and regained spells. (That is, thar spell slot is expended.
from his currently prepared spells, just as if it had been cast.)
Brewing.a potion requires one day.

Item Creation Feat Required: Brew Potion.

 

    

PoTION BASE Prices (BY Brewer's CLass)

Spell Level__ Cir, Drd, Wiz Sor Brd Pal, Rgr®
0 25 gp 25 gp 25 gp —
Ist 50.0 50 gp 100 gp 100 gp
and 300gp 4002p © 400 gp 400 gp
3rd 750 gp. 900 gp. 1,050 gp 750 gp

\* Caster level is half class level,
Prices assume that the potion was made at the minimum caster level

Base Cost To Brew A Potion (By Brewer's Cass)

Spell Level Clr, Drd, Wiz Sor Brd Pal, Rgr®
0 12gpSsp I2gpSsp I2gpSsp _
+1 xP +1 xP 41x
Ist 25 gp 25 gp 50.gp 50. gp
+2XP +2XP +4 XP +4XP
2nd 150gp —«-200gp-S 200 gp 200 gp
+12KP-$16XP_— +16 XP +16 XP
3rd 375gp  450gp «S25 gp 375 gp
+30XP__+36 XP__ +42. xP 430. XP

1 Caster level is half class level.
‘Costs assume that the creator makes the potion at the minimum.
caster level,

CREATING RINGS

To create a magic ring, a character needs a heat source. He also
needs a supply of materials, the most obvious being a.ring or the
pieces of the ring to be assembled. The cost for the materials is sub-|
sumed in the cost for creating the ring. Ring costs are difficult to}
formularize. Refer to Table 7-33 on page 285 and use. the ring!
prices in this chapter asa guideline. Creating a ring generally costs
half the ring’s market price.

Rings that duplicate spells with costly material or XP compo-|
nents add in the value of 50x the spell’s component cost. Having
spell with a costly component as a prerequisite does not automati-
cally incur this cost. The act of working on the ring triggers the
prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each
day of the ring's creation. (That is, those spell slots are.expended
from his currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)

Creating some rings may entail other prerequisites beyond or
other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions on pages
230-233 for details.

Forging a ring requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base
price.

Item Creation Feat Required: Forge Ring.

CREATING RODS
‘To create.a magic rod, a character needs a supply of materials, the
most obvious being a rod or the pieces of the rod to be assembled.
‘The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the
rod. Rod costs are difficult to formularize. Refer to Table 7-33 on
page 285 and use the rod prices in this chapter as a guideline. Cre-
ating a.rod costs half the market. value listed.

If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the rod,
the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know
the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) but need not provide
any material components or focuses the spells require, nor are any.
XP costs inherent in.a prerequisite spell incurred in the creation of.
the item. The act of working on the rod triggers the prepared ,
spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the|
rod’s creation, (That is, those spell slots are expended from his. cur-|

,rently prepared spells, justas if they had been.cast.) 4

Creating some_rods may.entail other prerequisites beyond or}
other than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions on pages |
234-237 for details.

Crafting a rod requires one day for each 1,000 gp of the base

price.

Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Rod.
