 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
    
   
 

    
  
 
 
 
   
       

‘The creator must have prepared the spell to be stored (or must
know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide
any focuses the spell requires, Fifty of each needed material com-
ponent are required, one for each charge. If casting the spell
would reduce the caster’s XP total, she pays the cost (multiplied by |
$0) upon beginning the wand in addition to the XP cost for,
making the wand itself. Likewise, material components are con-|

|sumed when she begins working, but focuses are not. (A focus;

{used in creating a wand can be reused.) The act of working on the}

\ wand triggers the prepared spell, making it unavailable for casting |
during each day devoted to the wand's creation. (That is, that spell |

jslot is expended from her.currently prepared spells, just as if it had
been cast.)

Crafting a wand requires one day per each 1,000 gp of the base
price. A wand of stoneskin.and a wand of charm monster each take
twenty-one days to create,

Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Wand.

CREATING WONDROUS ITEMS [

{To.create a wondrous item, a character usually needs some sort of |
equipment or tools.to.work on the item. She also needs a supply of |
materials, the most.obvious being the item itself or the pieces of
the item to be assembled. The cost for the materials is subsumed in
the cost for creating the item. Wondrous item costs are difficult to
formularize. Refer to Table 7-33 on page 285 and use the item
prices in this chapter as a guideline. Creating an item costs half

ithe market value listed.

If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the item,
ithe creator must have prepared the spells to be.cast (or must know
ithe spells, in the.case of a sorcerer. or bard) bur need not provide
jany material components or focuses the spells require, nor are any
\XP costs inherent in a prerequisite spell incurred in the creation of

 

 

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:
BODY SLOT AFFINITIES
A character who already has winged boots wants the haste effect pro-
vided by boots of speed. The player asks, “Can | make a hat of speed
instead?” What's your answer?

The question comes up with some frequency because some parts of
the body can accommodate many more kinds of magic items than
others. Almost every character gets a magic cloak of some kind early in
her career, even if it’s a simple clook of resistance +1. But magic vests
are few in number, and almost all the magic robes are too expensive for
low-level characters. Characters who have “empty” spaces on their
bodies are naturally eager to fill them with useful items that would ordi-
narily go in spots where they already have magic

Sore magic items strain credulity if they're placed in an unusual
location on the body. It’s much easier to imagine gauntlets of ogre power
than goggles of ogre power, Other changes seem straightforward
enough; for instance, a cloak of blending makes just as much sense as
a robe of blending.

Each location on the body, or body slot, has one or more affinities:
a word or phrase that describes the general function or nature of magic
items designed for that body slot. Body slot affinities are deliberately
broad, abstract categorizations, because a hard-and-fast rule can't
cover the great variety among wondrous items.

You can use the affinities in the list below to guide your decisions on
which magic items you'll allow in which body slots. And when you
design your own magic items, the affinities give you some guidance for
what form a particular item should take.

Some body slots have different affinities for different specific

  

the item. The act.of working on the item triggers the prepared
spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the |
items creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from his,
currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.) {
Creating some items may. entail other prerequisites beyond or
jother than spellcasting. See the individual descriptions beginning
on page 246 for details,
Crafting a wondrous item requires one day for each 1,000 gp of.
the base price,
Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Wondrous Item.

INTELLIGENT ITEM CREATION

To create an intelligent item, a character must have acaster level of
15th orhigher. Time and creation cost are based on the normal item.
creation rules, with the market price values on Table 7-30: Item |
Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and Capabilities (page 269)
\treated as additions to time, gp cost, and XP cost. The items align-
umentis the same as its creator’. Determine other features randomly,
[following the guidelines in the relevant sections of this chapter.

ADDING NEW ABILITIES
A creator can add new magical abilities to.a magic item with no
restrictions. The cost to do this is the same as if the item was not
magical. Thus, a+1 longsword can be made into a+2 vorpal long-
sword, with the cost to create it being equal to.that of a +2 vorpal
sword minus the cost ofa +1 sword.

If the item is one that occupies a specific place on.a character's |
ody (see Magic Items on the Body, page 214), the cost of adding |
any additional ability to thar irem increases by 50%. For example, if
acharacter adds the power to confer invisibility to her ring of protec,
tion +2, the cost of adding this ability is the same as for creating a
ring of invisibility multiplied by 1.5.

  

items, Gloves and gauntlets occupy the same body slot, for
example, but have the affinities of quickness and destructive power
respectively.

Body Slot Affinity

Headband, helmet Mental improvement, ranged attacks
Hat Interaction

Phylactery Morale, alignment

Eye lenses, goggles Vision

Cloak, cape, mantle
Amulet, brooch, medallion,
necklace, periapt, scarab

Transformation, protection
Protection, discernment

Robe Multiple effects

Shirt Physical improvement
Vest, vestment Class ability improvement
Bracers Combat

Bracelets Allies

Gloves Quickness

Gauntlets Destructive power

Belt Physical improvement
Boots Movement

Wondrous items that don’t match the affinity for a particular body
slot should cost 50% more than wondrous items that match the
affinity. Compare the boots of teleportation with the helm of teleporta-
tion. Unless you are intentionally aiming for a truly oddball game,
avoid patently absurd combinations such as eyeglasses of giant
Strength at any price.
