   
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 

   
   
  
 

   

Taste 8—1: Special Apitity TYPES.

Extraordinary _Spell-Like _ Supernatural
Dispel No Yes Yes
Spell resistance No Yes No
Antimagic field No Yes Yes
Attack of opportunity No Yes No

Dispel: Can dispel mogic and similar spells dispel the effects of abilities,

|_of that type?

[Spell Resistance: Does spell resistance protect a creature from these!

, abilities?

Antimogic Field: Does an antimagic field or similar magic suppress the)

} ability?

Attack of Opportunity: Does using the ability provoke attacks of
opportunity the way that casting a spell does?

Intelligence 0 means that the character cannot think and is

.— unconscious in a. comalike stupor, helpless.

,* Wisdom 0 means thar the character is withdrawn into a deep}

sleep filled with nightmares, helpless. 1

|+_Charisma 0 means that the character is withdrawn into a cata:
tonic, comalike stupor, helpless,

Keeping track of negative ability score points is never neces-

sary. A character's ability score cant drop below 0.
Having a score of 0 in an ability is different from having no abil-
ity score whatsoever. A wraith has no Strength score, not a
Strength score of 0, A clay golem has no Intelligence, not an Intel-
sligence score of 0. The wraith can move, it just cantact physically
ton other objects. The golem is not in.a stupor or helpless, but it has
\no thoughts or memory.

Some spells or abilities impose.an effective ability score reduc-
|tion, which is different from ability score loss, Any such reduction
(disappears at the end of the spell’s or ability's duration, and the
sability score immediately returns to its former value.
| Ifa character's Constitution score drops, then he loses 1 hit

point per Hit Die for every point by which his Constitution mod-
ifier drops, For example, at 7th level, Tordek is hit by poison that
causes his Constitution to drop from 16 to 13, His Constitution.
modifier falls from +3 to +1, so he loses 14 hit points (2 per level).
A minute later, the poison deals another 8 points of Constitution
damage, dropping his score to 5 and his modifier to ~3. He loses
another 28 hit points—for a total of 42 hit points lost because of)
an overall 6-point drop in his Constitution modifier

A hit point score can't be reduced by Constitution damage or
drain to less than 1 hit point per Hit Die. At 7th level, Mialee has

22 hit points when fully healed. Even if her Constitution score
drops to Sor lower, she will still have at least 7 hit points (less any
damage she may take),

The ability that some creatures have to drain ability scores (such
jas shadows draining Strength or lamias draining Wisdom) is a
|supernatural one, requiring some sort of attack. Such creatures do
\not drain abilities from enemies when the enemies strike them,

even with unarmed attacks or natural weapons.

ANTIMAGIC
‘The beholder opens its large central eye, and suddenly Lidda (who
had been invisible) becomes visible, and Tordek (who had been
flying) drops unceremoniously to the floor, The adventurers"

   

VARIANT: SEPARATE ABILITY LOSS

Some players don't like keeping track of ability scores that go down
because they find it hard to recalculate their statistics based on their
new ability modifiers. These players may find it easier to track ability
loss separately, sort of the way nonlethal damage works. In this variant,
for each 2 points of ability damage, the character takes a~1 penalty on

    

magic weapons are now no better than masterwork versions, and,
their layers of magical protections are gone. The fire giant working |
with the beholder hefts his axe, grins, and charges. \
An antimagic field spell or the main eye ray of a beholder cancels;
Lmagic altogether. This spell-like effect is extremely powerful—the
jultimate defense against magic, An antimagic effect has the fol-
slowing powers and characteristics.

+ No supernatural ability, spell-like ability, or spell works in.an
area of antimagic (but extraordinary abilities still work),
Antimagic does not dispel magic; it suppresses it. Once a.magi-
cal effect is no longer affected by the antimagic.(the antimagic |
fades, the center of the effect moves away, and soon), the magic
returns. Spells that still have part of their duration left begin
functioning again, magic items are once again useful, and so,
forth. 4
Spell areas that include both an antimagic area and_a_normal,
_—area, but are not centered in the antimagic area, still function in
{the normal area, If the spell’s center is in the antimagic area,
4—then the spell is suppressed. 4
Golems and other constructs, elementals, outsiders, and corpo-
real undead, still function in an_antimagic area (though the
antimagic area suppresses their spellcasting and their supernat-,
ural and_spell-like abilities normally). If such crearures_are
summoned or. conjured, however, see below.

Summoned or conjured creatures of any_type..as well as incor-
poreal undead, wink out if they enter the area of an antimagic
effect. They reappear in the same spot once the field goes away.
Magic items with continuous effects, such as.a bag of holding. do.)
not function in.the area of an antimagic effect, but their effects |
are not canceled (so the contents of the bag are unavailable, but)
neither spill out nor disappear forever). j
Two antimagic.areas.in.the same place do not cancel each other,
out, nor do they stack. }
Wall of force, prismatic wall, and prismatic sphere are not affected by
antimagic. Break enchantment, dispel magic, and_greater_dispel
magic spells do not dispel antimagic. Mordenkainen’s disjunction
has a 1% chance per caster level of destroying an.antimagic field
If the antimagic field survives the disjunction, no items within it
are disjoined.

BLINDSIGHT AND BLINDSENSE
Some. creatures have blindsight, the extraordinary ability to use a
nonyisual sense (or a combination of such senses) to operate effec-
tively without vision, Such sense may include sensitivity to. vibra
tions, acute scent, keen hearing, or echolocation, This ability makes
invisibility and concealment (even magical darkness) irrelevant to
the creature (though it still can't see ethereal creatures). This ability
operates out to a range specified in the creature description.
* Blindsight never allows a creature to distinguish color or-visual
contrast, A creature cannot read with blindsight.
Blindsight does not subject_a.creature to gaze attacks (even
though darkvision does).
Blinding attacks do not penalize. creatures using blindsight.
Deafening attacks thwart blindsight if it relies on hearing (asa
bats echolocation ability does).
Blindsight works underwater but not in a vacuum,
* Blindsight negates displacement and blur effects.

checks related to that ability, If the ability loss equals or exceeds the
ability score, then the character suffers the effect of having a 0 score in
that ability. Ability damage goes away at the rate of 1 point per day

This variant leads to very nearly the same results as standard ability
loss does
