 

Whenever damage reduction completely negates the damage
from an attack, it also negates most special effects that accompany
the attack, such as injury.type poison,a monk's stunning, and
injury type disease. Damage reduction does not negate touch
attacks, energy damage dealt along with an attack (such as fire|
damage from a fire elemental), or energy drains, Nor does it affect}
poisons or diseases delivered by inhalation, ingestion, or contact.|
\Attacks thar deal no damage because of the target's damage reduc:
\tion do not disrupt spells.

Spells, spell-like abilities, and energy attacks (even nonmagical
fire). ignore damage reduction.

Sometimes damage reduction is instant healing. A sword slash
jacross a demon's hide slices it open, bur the open wound seals as
fast as it's made. Sometimes damage reduction represents the
creature's tough hide or body, such as with a gargoyle or iron
golem. In either case, characters can see that conventional attacks
sdonitwork,
| Ifa creature has damage reduction from more than one source,
ithe.tvo forms of damage reduction do not stack. Instead, the crea-)
|rure gets the benefit of the best damage reduction in a given situa-,
tion. For example, a werebear with damage reduction 10/silver |
receives a righteous might spell and gains damage reduction $/evil.
If the werebear is attacked with a weapon that is neither silver nor
evil, it takes 10 fewer points of damage from each attack. Damage
from a silver weapon that is not evil is reduced by 5 points per
attack (since it bypasses the DR 10/silver but not the DR S/evil),
{and damage from an evil weapon that is not silveris reduced by 10
{points per attack (since it bypasses the DR S/evil bur not the DR
|10/silver), Only.a weapon that is both silver and evil (such as a sil-
jyered unholy weapon) deals full damage-to the creature.

DARKVISION
Darkvision is the extraordinary ability to see with no light source
jatall, out to a.range specified for the creature,

Darkvision is black. and white only (colors cannot be dis-
cerned). Ir does not allow characters to see anything that they
could not see. otherwise—invisible objects are.still invisible, and
illusions are still visible as what they seem to be, Likewise, dark-,
vision subjects a creature to gaze attacks normally.

The presence of light does not spoil darkvision, If a character |
has darkvision with a 60-foor range, and he stands within a 20-foot
radius of light, the character. can see normally in the light, and 40
feet beyond the light because of his darkvision.

DEATH ATTACKS
Lidda, scouting ahead of her party, meets the eyes of the figure she
discovers in.the shadows. It's one of the awful undead creatures
known as bodaks. She feels a sudden vertigo, as her spark of life
itself is attacked by the bodak’s supernatural power
The bodak’s abyssal eyes can kill with a glance. The dreaded
| power avord kill spell can slay without.eyen allowing the victim a
saving throw. A single armw of slaying can fell a dragon. Even a
fighter with 100 hit points.can be killed by a single death attack.
In most cases, a death attack allows the victim a Fortitude save
to avoid the affect, but if the save fails, the character dies
instantly,
* Raise dead doesnt work on someone killed bya death attack.
* Death attacks slay instantly, A victim cannot be made stable and
thereby kept alive,
In case it matters, a dead character. no matter how she died, has
=10 hit points,
The spell death. wand protects a character against these attacks.

gISEASE—

[When a character is injured by a contaminated attack (such as a
mummy’s.slam attack, which can transmit mummy rot),
touches an item smeared with diseased matter, or consumes dis-|

ease-tainted food or drink, he must make an immediate Forti-,
tude saving throw. If he succeeds, the disease has no effect—his|
immune system fought off the infection. If he fails, he rakes}
damage after an incubation period. Once per day afterward, he,

[must make a successful Fortitude saving throw to avoid
repeated damage. Two successful saving throws in a row indi-
|cate that he has fought off the disease and recovers, taking no

more damage.
You can roll these Fortitude saving throws for the player so that,

_he doesnt know whether the disease has taken hold. 4

Disease Descriptions

Diseases have various symptoms and are spread through a number
of vectors. The characteristics of several typical diseases are sum-,
marized.on Table 8-2; Diseases and defined below.

Disease: Diseases whose names are printed in italic in the table |

,are supernatural in nature. The others are extraordinary,

Infection: The disease's method of delivery—ingested, inhaled, ,

via injury, or contact. Keep in mind that some injury diseases may_,
{be transmitted by as small an injury.as a flea bite and that most

inhaled diseases can also be ingested (and vice versa)

DC: The Difficulty Class for the Fortitude saving throws to pre-
vent infection (if the character has been infected), to prevent each
instance of repeated damage, and to recover from the disease,

Incubation Period: The time before damage. begins.

Damage: The ability damage the character takes after incubation
and each day afterward,

Types of Diseases: Typical diseases include the follow: ing:| }

Blinding Sickness: Spread in tainted water.

Cackle Fever: Symptoms include high fever, disorientation, and]
frequent bouts of hideous laughter. Also known as.“the shrieks” |

Demon Fever: Night hags spread it. Can cause permanent abiliry|
drain.

Devil Chill: Barbazu and pir fiends spread it. Ir takes three, not
two, successful saves in a row to recover from devil chills.

Filth Fever: Dire rats and otyughs spread it. Those injured while
in filthy surroundings might also catch it.

‘Mindfire: Feels like your brain is burning. Causes stupor.

Mummy Rot: Spread by mummies. Successful saving throws do
not allow the character to recover (though they do prevent
damage normally).

Red Ache: Skin turns red, bloated, and warm to the touch

The Shakes; Causes involuntary tvitches, tremors, and firs.

Slimy Doom: Victim turns into infectious goo from the inside
out. Can cause permanent ability drain.

Taste 8-2; Diseases

Disease Infection DC Incubation Damage
Blinding sickness ingested 16  ‘Id3days ‘14 Str?
Cackle fever Inhaled _16__1 day 1d6 Wis
Demon fever Injury 18 1 day 1d6 Con?
Devil chills? Injury 14__1d4 days 1d4 Str
Filth fever Injury 12 103. days 143 Dex,
143 Con
Mindfire Inhaled 12 1 day 1d4 Int
Mummy rot* Contact 20 I day 146 Con
Red ache Injury 15 1d3 days 146 Str
Shakes, Contact 3 1 day 1d8 Dex
Slimy doom. Contact 14 i day 1d4 Con?

1 Each time the victim takes 2 or more damage from.the disease, he

|_ must make another Fortitude save or be permanently blinded. _|

2 When damaged, character must succeed on another saving throw.
or 1 point of damage is. permanent drain instead, 4

3 The victim must make three successful Fortitude saving throws in a
row to recover from devil chills.

|4 Successful saves do not allow the character to recover. Only magical
healing can save the character,
