 

A creature thar has taken both nonlethal and lethal damage
heals the nonlethal damage first.

Fast healing does not restore hit points lost from_starvation,
thirst, or suffocation.

Fast healing does not increase the number of hit points,
regained when a creature polymorphs. 5

FEAR

[A young adult green dragon charges the adventurers. Tordek feels |

Gaseous creatures cant enter water or other liquid. They are.not,
ethereal or incorporeal. They are affected by winds or other forms,
of moving airtothe extent that the wind pushes them in the direc-|
tion the wind is moving. However, even the strongest wind cant,

{disperse or damage a creature in gaseous form.

Discerning a creature in gaseous form from natural mist requires

4a DC 15 Spot check Creatures in gaseous form attempting to hide

in an area with mist, smoke, or other gas gain a +20 bonus,

jatwinge of fear bur grits his teeth and ignores it. Lidda doesnt. GAZE ATTACKS

{stand up as well to the charge. She holds her ground, but fear takes.

}the edge off her skill. The cohort who had recently joined them,
however, drops her sword and flees recklessly, her screams fading
in the distance.

Spells, magic items, and certain monsters can affect characters
with fear. In most cases, the character makes a Will saving throw
to resist this effect, and a failed roll means that the character is

\shaken, frightened, or panicked.
| Shaken: Characters who are shaken take a2 penalty on attack |.
rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and abiliry checks. }

Frightened: Characters who are frightened are shaken, and in.
addition they flee from the source of their fear as quickly as they
can. They can choose the path of their flight. Other than that stip-
ulation, once they are out of sight (or hearing) of the source of
their fear, they can act as they want. However, if the duration of
their fear continues, characters can be forced.to flee once more if

ithe source of their fear presents itself again. Characters unable to
(flee can fight (though they are still shaken).

Panicked: Characters who are panicked are shaken, and they
|run away from the source of their fear as quickly as they can,
(Other than running away from the source, their path is random.
(They flee from all other dangers that confront them rather than

facing those dangers. Panicked characters cower if they are pre-
\vented from fleeing.

Becoming Even More Fearful: Fear effects are cumulative. A
shaken character who is made shaken again becomes frightened,
and.ashaken character who is made frightened becomes panicked
instead. A frightened character who is made shaken or nee
becomes panicked instead,

FIRE IMMUNITY
A creature with fire immunity, suchasa fire giant, never takes fire
damage. It has vulnerability to cold, which means it takes half
again as much (+50%) damage as normal from cold, regardless of
whether a saving throw is allowed, or if the save is. a success or
failure.

GASEOUS FORM
{Some creatures have the supernatural or spell-like ability to take
ithe form of a cloud of vapor or gas,
|_Creatures in gaseous form can't run but.can fly. A gaseous crea-
ture can move about and do the things that a cloud of gas can con-
ceivably do, such as flow through the crack under a door, It cant,
however, pass through solid matter.

Gaseous creatures can't attack physically or cast spells with
verbal, somatic, material, or focus components. They lose their
supernatural abilities (except for the supernatural ability to
assume gaseous form, of course).

Creatures in gaseous form have damage reduction 10/magic,
»Spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities affect them
\normally. Creatures in gaseous form lose all benefit of material
jarmor (including natural armor), though size, Dexterity, deflec-
jtion bonuses, and armor bonuses from force armor (for example,
from the mage armor spell) still apply.

Gaseous creatures do not need to breathe and are immune to
attacks involving breathing (troglodyte stench, poison gas, and!

the like).

The medusa looks around, throwing dangerous glances every-|
where, and focusing its eyes on specific victims. Lidda closes her
eyes and tries to aim her arrows by ear. Jozan averts his eyes but
tries to watch the creature with peripheral vision so he knows,
where to project his scaring light spell. Tordek trusts fate and looks,
the thing in the eye as he swings his mighty axe, Magic washes

,through him, and he shrugs it off. Jozan, however, accidentally

catches the thing's eye, and he's nor strong enough to resist. His
sbody hardens and turns to stone.

While the medusa’s gaze is well known, gaze attacks can also!
charm, curse, or even kill. Gaze attacks not produced bya spell are
supernatural,

Each character within range of a gaze attack must.attempt.a
saving throw (which can bea Fortirude or Will save) each round at
the beginning of his rurn.

An opponent can avert his eyes from, the creature’ face, looking
at the creature's body, watching its shadow,.or tracking the crea-|

sture in a reflective surface. Each round, the opponent has a 50%,

chance of not haying to. make a saving throw, The creature with}
the gaze attack gains concealment relative to the opponent,

An opponent can shut his eyes, turn his back on the creature, or
wear a blindfold. In these cases, the opponent does not need to!
make a saving throw. The creature with the gaze attack gains total.
concealment relative to the opponent.

Accreature with a gaze attack can actively attempt to.use its gaze
as an attack action. The creature simply chooses a target within
range, and that opponent must attempt a saying throw. If the
target has chosen to defend against the gaze as discussed above,
the opponent gets a chance.to. avoid the saving throw (either 50%
chance for averting eyes or 100% chance for shutting eyes). It is
possible for an opponent.to save against a creature's gaze twice
during the same round, once before its own action and once
during the creature's action..

Looking at the creature's image (such as in a mirror or as part of
an illusion) does not subject the viewer to a gaze attack.

A creature is immune to its own gaze attack,

If visibility is limited (by dim lighting, a fog, or the like) so that
it results in concealment, there is a percentage chance equal to the
normal miss chance for that degree of concealment that a charac-
ter won't need to make a saying throw in a given round. This
chance is not cumulative with the chance for averting your eyes,
but is rolled separately.

Invisible creatures cannot use gaze.attacks,

Characters using darkvision in.complete darkness are affected
by.a gaze attack normally.

Unless specified otherwise, a creature with a gaze attack can
control its gaze attack and “turn it off” when so desired.

INCORPOREALITY

Lidda spots a.translucent face poking forth from a wall, but its)

,gone by the time she alerts her companions. The party starts 10}

back our of the ruined throne room they're exploring, when)
suddenly several ghostly figures fly out of the walls toward)

ithem. Tordek raises his magic shield to fend off a spectre’s
jattack, bur the incorporeal hand passes through the shield and
{through his magic plate armor, It touches his heart, which sud-

denly grows cold.
