   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

   
  
  
  
 

      

chance roll rather than two 50% miss chance rolls.)
A creature with blindsight can attack (and otherwise interact
with) creatures regardless of invisibility,

An invisible burning torch still gives off light, as does an invis-|

ible object with a light spell (or similar spell) cast upon ir.

Ethereal creatures are invisible. Since ethereal creatures are not,
[materially present, Spot checks, Listen checks, Scent, Blind-Fighr,,
jand blindsight don't help locate them. Incorporeal creatures are |
often invisible. Scent, Blind-Fight, and blindsight dont help crea-|

jtures find or attack invisible, incorporeal creatures, but Spot!
\checks and possibly Listen checks can help.

Invisible crearures cannotuse gaze attacks.

Invisibility does not thwart detect spells.

Since some creatures.can detect or even see invisible creatures,
it is helpful to be able to hide even when invisible.

LEVEL LOSS
\Acharacter who loses a level instantly loses one Hit Die. The char-| +
jacter's base attack bonus, base saving throw bonuses, and special |
class abilities are now reduced to the new, lower level. A 2nd-level ,
rogue, for example, normally has the evasion ability, bur when she
is drained to 1st level, she loses that ability. Likewise, the character
loses any ability score gain, skill ranks, and any feat associated
with the level (if applicable). Ifthe exact ability score or skill ranks
increased from a level now lost is unknown (ar the player has for-
,gotten), lose 1 point from the highest ability score or ranks from
ithe highest-ranked skills. If a familiar or companion creature
\(such asa paladin’s mount) has abilities tied to.a. character who has
lost.a level, the creature's abilities are adjusted to fit the character's
inew level.
The victim's experience point total is immediately set to the
,midpoint of the previous level. For example, acharacter drained
from 2nd to 1st level would drop to $00 experience points.

LOW-LIGHT VISION
Characters. with low-light vision have eyes that are so sensitive to.
light that they can see twice as far as normal in dim light. Thus, if;
a group of adventurers passes down a dark passage with a torch |
illuminating a 20-foot radius, an elf with low-light vision can see,
everything within 40 feet of the torch. Low-light vision is color.
vision, A spellcaster with low-light vision can read a scroll as long
as even the tiniest candle flame is next to her as a source of light
Characters with low-light vision can see outdoors on a moonlit
night as well as they.can during the day,

PARALYSIS

,Acleric of Hextor brandishes his unholy symbol at Tordek, ges-
jtures with it, and speaks unintelligible words. Suddenly Tordek
ueels his body freeze up,.and he can't will his limbs to obey. He
|stands rigid and helpless. He hears a fight raging around him and
sees whatever passes in front of his eyes, but he cant turn to see
how his friends are faring. The sound of his own breath and the
beating of his heart fill bis ears. Then he hears someone behind
him, and all he can do is hope it'sa friend.

Some monsters and spells have the supernatural or spell-like
ability to paralyze their victims, immobilizing them through mag-
ical means. (Paralysis from toxins is discussed in the Poison sec-
tion below.)

A paralyzed character cannot move, speak, or take any-physical
jaction. He is rooted to the spot, frozen and helpless. Not even
piriends can move his limbs. He may. take purely mental actions,
4such as casting a spell with no components,
4A.winged creature flying in the air at the time thar it becomes
\paralyzed cannor flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can't swim

and may.drown.

if both rolls indicate a miss, (Alternatively, make one.25% miss.

POISON

When a character takes damage from an attack with a poisoned.

     
 

sveapon, touches an item smeared with contact poison, consumes.

poisoned food or drink, or is otherwise poisoned, he must make a
{Fortitude saving throw, If he fails, he takes the poison’s initial
idamage (usually ability damage). Even if he succeeds, he typically
[faces more damage 1 minute later, which he can also avoid with a

successful Fortitude saving throw,

One dose of poison smeared on a weapon or some other object

saffects just a single target. A poisoned weapon or object retains its,

venom until the weapon scores a hit or the object is touched (un-)

less the poison is wiped off before a target comes in contact with
it), Any poison smeared on an object or exposed to the elements in

any way—if the vial containing it is left unstoppered, for in-|

stance—remains potent until it is touched or used.

Although supernatural and spell-like poisons are possible, poi-
sonous effects are almost always extraordinary.

{Poisons can be divided into four basic types according to the
jmethod by which their effect is delivered, as follows.

Conta erely touching this type of poison necessitates a
saving throw. Ircan be actively delivered via a weapon ora touch
attack. Even if a creature has sufficient damage reduction to avoid
taking any damage from the attack, the poison can still affect it. A
chest or other object can be smeared with contact poison as part of
a trap.

ipeuad Ingested poisons are virtually impossible to utilize in
a combat siruation. A poisoner could administer.a potion.to.an un-

 

{conscious creature or attempt to dupe someone into.drinking or)
eating something poisoned. Assassins and other characters tend to |

use ingested poisans outside of combat.

Inhaled: Inhaled poisons are usually contained in fragile vials |
or eggshells, They can be thrown as a ranged attack with arange.
increment of 10 feet. When it strikes a hard surface (or is struck.
hard), the container releases its poison. One dose spreads to fill the
volume of a 10-foot cube. Each crearure within the area must make
a saving throw. (Holding one’s breath is ineffective against inhaled
poisons; they affect the nasal membranes, tear ducts, and other
parts of the body.)

Injury: This poison must be delivered through a wound, If a
creature has sufficient damage reduction to avoid taking any dam-
age from the attack, the poison does not affect it. Traps that cause
damage from weapons, needles, and the like sometimes contain
injury poisons.

The characteristics of poisons are.summarized on Table 8-3:
Poisons. Terms on the table are defined below.

Type: The poison's method of delivery (contact, ingested,
inhaled, or via an injury) and the Fortitude save DC to avoid the
poisons damage.

Initial Damage: The damage the character takes immediately
upon failing his saving throw against this poison. Ability damage
is temporary.unless marked with an asterisk (*), in which case the
loss is. a permanent drain. Paralysis lasts for 2d6 minutes.

Secondary Damage: The.amount of damage the character takes 1
minute after exposure as a result of the poisoning, if he fails a
second saving throw, Unconsciousness lasts for 1d3 hours. Ability
damage marked with an asterisk is permanent drain instead of
temporary damage.

Price: The cost of one dose (one vial) of the poison. It is not pos: ,
sible to. use orapply poison in any quantity smaller chan one dose. |

The purchase and possession of poison is always illegal, and even
in big cities it can be obtained only from specialized, less than rep-|
utable sources,

Perils of Using Poison
A character has a 5% chance of exposing himself to poison when-
,ewer he applies it to.a. weapon or otherwise readies it for use. Addi-

tionally, a. character who rolls a natural 1 on an attack roll with a
