 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 

   
 

heal its wounds, or teleport great distances, Some psionic crea-
tures can see into the future, the past, and the present (in far-off
locales) as well as read the minds of others.

RAYS

A thin, green beam leaps from one of the beholder’s eyes. and,
streaks across the chamber at Mialee. She twists to avoid it (as she)
ywould move to avoid an arrow or a sword), but the beam flies true,
land connects. Green energy encompasses her in a flash, trying to}
,disintegrate her. Her face contorts as.she struggles to resist the)

(spell. In an instant, the green energy is. gone, and Mialee is safe.
\The beholder then projects. a second eye beam at her,

All ray attacks, whether from a may of enfeeblement spell or a
beholder’s eye ray, require the attacker to make a successful ranged
touch attack against the target. Rays have varying ranges, which
are simple maximums. A ray’s attack roll never takes a range

jpenalty. Even if a ray hits, it usually allows the target to make a
jsaving throw (Fortitude or Will). Rays never allow a Reflex saving.

\throw, but if a. character's Dexterity bonus to AC is high, it might).

{be hard to hit her with the ray in the first place
REGENERATION

Creatures with this extraordinary ability recover from wounds
quickly and can even regrow or reattach severed body parts.

Damage dealt to the creature is treated as nonlethal damage,

and the creature automatically cures itself of nonlethal damage at
\afixed rate (for example, 5 points per round fora troll).
Certain attack forms, typically fire and acid, deal damage to the
\creature normally; that sort of damage doesn't convert to non-
(lethal damage and so doesnt go away. The creature's description
jincludes the details.

Creatures with regeneration can regrow lost portions of their
,bodies and can reattach severed limbs or body parts, Severed parts
(die if they are not reattached.

Regeneration does not restore hit points lost from starvation,

thirst, or suffocation.

Attack forms that don't deal hit point damage (for example,
implosion and most poisons) ignore regeneration.

An attack that can cause instant death, such as a coup de grace,|
massive damage, or an assassin'’s death attack, only threatens the
creature with death if it is delivered by weapons that deal it lethal
damage.

RESISTANCE TO ENERGY
A creature with resistance to energy has the ability (usually extraor-
dinary) to ignore some damage of a certain type (such as cold, elec-
tricity, or fire) each round, but it does not have total immunity.
Each resistance ability is defined hy what energy type it resists
and haw many points of damage are resisted. For example, a janni
phas resistance to fire 10_A janni can ignore the first 10 points of
fire damage it takes each attack. It doesn't matter whether the
damage has a mundane or magical source.
When resistance completely negates the damage from an
energy attack, the attack does not disrupt a spell.
This resistance does not stack with the resistance that a spell,
such as endure elements, might provide.

 

ity lets a creature detect approaching ene-
mies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

A creature with the scent ability can detect opponents by sense
of smell, generally within 30 feet. If the opponent is upwind, the
range is 60 feet. If it is downwind, the range is 15 feet. Strong
scents, such as smoke or rotting garbage, can be detected at twice
the ranges noted above. Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk
or troglodyte stench, can be detected at three times these ranges.
The creature detects another creature's presence but not its spe-

    

   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
    
 

   

cific location. Noting the direction of the scent is a move action. If,
it moves. within 5 feet of the scent's source, the creature can pin-,
point that source. .
A creature with the Track feat and the scent ability can follow.
jtracks by smell, making a Wisdom check to find or follow a track.
{The typical DC for a fresh trail is 10. The DC increases or decreases
{depending on how strong the quarry’s odor is, the number of crea-
tures, and the age of the trail. For each hour that the trail is cold,
the DC increases by 2. The ability otherwise follows the rules for ,
the Track fear (see page 101 of the Player's Handbook). Creatures,
jtracking by scent ignore the effects of surface conditions and poor}
visibility.

Creatures with the scent ability can identify familiar odors just

as humans do familiar sights.

‘Water, particularly running water, ruins a.tail for airs breathing |

creatures. Water-breathing creatures such as sharks, however, have
sthe scent ability and can use it in the water easily,

False, powerful odors can easily mask other scents. The pres-,
sence. of such an odor completely spoils the ability to properly.
idetect or identify creatures, and the base Survival DC to track

becomes 20 rather than.10,

SPELL RESISTANCE

Spell resistance is the extraordinary ability 10 avoid being affected
by spells. (Some spells also grant spell resistance.)

To affect a creature that has spell resistance, a spellcaster must
make a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) at least equal to the,
creature's spell resistance. (The defender’s spell resistance is like an |
Armor Class against magical attacks.) If the caster fails the check, |
the spell doesnt affect the creature. The possessor does not have to |
do anything special to use spell resistance. The creature need not}
even be aware of the threat for its spell resistance to operate. ;

Only spells and spell-like abilities are subject to spell resistance.
Extraordinary and supernatural abilities (including enhancement
bonuses on magic weapons) are not. For example, the fear effect
from a red of lordly might is subject to spell resistance because itis a
spell-like effect. The rod’s combat bonuses (such as the +2 bonus
from the rod’s mace form) are not. A creature can have some abili-
ties that are subject to spell resistance and some that are not. For
example, an androsphinx’s divine spells are subject to spell resist-
ance, but its roar is not. (The roar is a supernatural ability.) A
cleric’s spells are subject to.spell resistance, but his use of positive
or negative energy is not. Even some spells ignore spell resistance;

see When Spell Resistance Applies, below.

A creature can voluntarily lower its spell resistance. Doing so is
a standard action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity.
Once a creature lowers its resistance, it remains down until the
creature's next turn. At the beginning of the creature's next turn,
the creature's spell resistance automatically returns unless the
creature intentionally keeps it down (also a standard action that
does not provoke an attack of opportunity).

A creature's spell resistance never interferes with its own spells,
items, or abilities _

A creature with spell resistance cannot impart this power to
others by touching them or standing in their midst. Only the
rarest of creatures and a few magic items have the ability to bestow
spell resistance upon another.

Spell resistance does not stack. It overlaps. Ifa cleric wearing +1
chainmail. that grants him spell resistance 15 casts holy auna, which |
grants spell resistance 25 against evil spells and spells cast by evil
creatures, he has spell resistance 25 against the aforementioned
spells and spell resistance 15 against other spells and spell-like
abilities.

When Spell Resistance Applies
Each spell described in the Player's Handbook includes an entry
that indicates whether spell resistance applies to the spell. In
