actions other than to pay attention to the fascinating effect, for as
longas the effect lasts. It takes a—+ penalty on skill checks made as
reactions, such as Listen and Spot checks. Any potential threat,
such as a hostile creature approaching, allows the fascinated crea-
ture a new saving throw against the fascinating effect. Any obvi-,
ous threat, such as someone drawing a weapon, casting a spell, or.
aiming a ranged weapon at the fascinated creature, automatically
ibreaks the effect. A fascinated creature's ally may shake it free of,
ithe spell as a standard action,

__Fatigued: A fatigued character can neither run nor charge. and
itakes a -2 penalty to Strength and Dexterity, Doing anything that
\would normally cause fatigue causes the fatigued character to
_become exhausted. After 8 hours of complete test, fatigued char-
acters are no longer fatigued.

Flat-Footed: A character who has not yet acted during a
combat is flat-footed, not yet reacting normally to the situation. A

(flat-footed character loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) and.
ycannot make attacks of opportunity. {

Frightened: A frightened creature flees from the source of its |
fear as best it can, If unable to flee, it may fight. A frightened crea- |
ture takes a 2 penalty on all attack rolls, saving throws, skill
checks, and ability checks. A frightened creature can use special
abilities, including spells, to flee; indeed, the creature must use
such means if they are the only way to escape.

Frightened is like shaken, except that the creature must flee if
possible. Panicked is a more extreme state of fear,

| Grappling: Engaged in wrestling or some other form of hand-
|to-hand struggle with one or more attackers.A grappling charac-
\ter can undertake only a limited number of actions. He does not
\threaten any squares, and loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any)
\against opponents he isn't grappling.

Helpless: A helpless character is paralyzed, held, bound,
,sleeping, unconscious, or otherwise completely at an opponent's
umercy, A helpless target is treated as having a Dexterity. of 0 (~S

modifier). Melee attacks against a helpless target geta +4 bonus
(equivalent to attacking a prone target). Ranged attacks gets no
special bonus against helpless targets. Rogues can sneak attack
helpless targets.

‘As a full-round action, an enemy can use a melee weapon to]
deliver a coup de grace to a helpless foe. An enemy can also use a
bow or crossbow, provided he is adjacent to the target. The attacker |
automatically hits and scores a critical hit. (A rogue also gets her
sneak attack damage bonus against.a helpless foe when delivering
a coup de grace.) If the defender survives, he must make a Forti-
tude save (DC 10 + damage dealt) or die.

Delivering a coup de. grace provokes attacks of opportunity.

Creatures that are immune to critical hits do not take critical
damage, nordo they need to make Fortitude saves to avoid being
killed by a coup de grace.

Incorporeal: Having no physical body. Incorporeal creatures
are immune to all nonmagical attack forms, They can be harmed
only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons,
spells, spell-like effects, or supernatural effects. (See Incorporeal-
ity under Special Abilities, earlier in this chapter.)

Invisible; Visually undetectable, An invisible creature gains a
+2 bonus on attack rolls against sighted opponents, and ignores its
opponents’ Dexterity bonuses to AC (if any). (See Invisibility,
under Special Abilities, earlier in this chapter.)

Knocked Down: Depending on their size, creatures.can be
knocked down by winds of high velocity (see Table 3-24: Wind

Effects, page 95), Creatures on the ground are knocked prone by.
\the force of the wind. Flying creatures are instead blown back.
11d6x10 feet,

Nauseated: Experiencing stomach distress. Nauseated crea-
tures are unable to attack, cast spells, concentrate on spells, or do
anything else requiring attention. The only action such a character |
can take is.a single move action per turn.

 

Panicked: A panicked creature must drop anything it holds
and flee at top speed from the source of its fear, as well as anyother |
dangers itencounters, along a random path, It cant take any other |
actions. In addition, the creature takes a-2 penalty on all saving |
throws, skill checks, and ability checks. If cornered, a panicked

\creature cowers.and does not attack, typically using the oral
\defense action in combat. A panicked creature can_use special abil-
ities, including spells, 10 flee; indeed, the creature must use such.
means if they are the only way to escape.

Panicked is a more.extreme state of fear than shaken or frightened.

Paralyzed: A paralyzed character is frozen in place and unable
to move or act, such as by the hold person spell. A paralyzed charac-
ter has effective Dexterity and Strength scores of 0. and is helpless,
but can take purely mental actions. A winged creature flying in}
the air at.the time that it becomes paralyzed cannot flap its wings,
and falls, A paralyzed swimmer can't swim and may drown. A crea-

mure can move through a space occupied by a paralyzed creature—
lally or not. Each square occupied by a paralyzed creature, however,
\counts as 2 squares.

Petrified: A petrified character has been turned to stone and is
considered unconscious, If a petrified character cracks or breaks,
but the broken pieces are joined with the body as he returns.10,
flesh, he is unharmed. If the character's petrified body is incom-
plete when it returns to flesh, the body is likewise incomplete and
the DM must assign some amount of permanent hit point loss
and/or debilitation.

Pinned: Held immobile (but not helpless) ina grapple. }

Prone: The character is on the ground. An attacker who is/
prone has a—4 penalty.on melee attack rolls and cannot use.a|
ranged weapon (except for a crossbow). A defender who is prone |

gains a +4 bonus to Armor Class against ranged attacks, but takes.a)
~4 penalty to AC against melee attacks.

Standing up is amove-equivalent action that provokes an attack)
of opportunity.

Shaken: A shaken character takes a -2 penalty on.attack rolls,
saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks,

Shaken is a less severe state of fear than frightened or panicked.

Sickened: The character takes a —2 penalty.on all attack rolls,
weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability
checks.

Stable: A character who was dying but who has stopped losing
hit points and still has negative hit points is stable. The character
is no longer dying, but is still unconscious. If the character has
become stable because of aid from another character (such as a
Heal check or magical healing), then the character no longer loses
hit points, He has a 10% chance each hour of becoming conscious
and disabled (even though his hit points are still negative),

If the character became stable_on his own and hasn't had help,
he is still at risk of losing hit points. Each hour, he has a 10%
chance of becoming conscious and disabled. Otherwise he loses 1
hit point.

Staggered: A character whose nonlethal damage exactly equals
his current hitpoints is staggered, A staggered character may take
a single move action or standard action each round (but not both,
nor.can she take full-round actions).

A character whose current hit points exceed his nonlethal
damage is no longer staggered; a character whose nonlethal |
damage exceeds his hit points becomes unconscious.

Stunned; A stunned creature drops everything held, cant. take
actions, takes a2 penalty to AC, and loses his Dexterity bonus.to/
JAC (ifany)_

Turned; Affected by.a turn undead attempt. Turned undead}
flee for 10 rounds (1 minute) by the best and fastest means avail- |
able to them. tf they cannot flee, they cower,

Unconscious: Knocked out and helpless, Unconsciousness
jcan result from having current hit points between -1 and -9, or
from nonlethal damage in excess of current hit points

 
