 
  
   
 
 

      

Characters crossing the burning desert face hearstroke and dehy-
dration, Plunging into.the murky depths raises the risk of drown-

ing and even decompression. Adventurers spend a lot of time in|
the most dismal, dangerous, and generally unpleasant places imag-|
inable. If the monsters and the villains dont kill them, the enyi-|
\ronment itself might. This section details hazards the player char-;
\acters face from the physical world around them. Some of these}
hazards are specific to certain environments (the perils of severe |
|heat almost never apply in.anarea of cold mountains, for!

\instance), while others are threats that could come into play in any
,environment (such as acid effects or starvation and thirst)
Environmental hazards specific to one kind of terrain (such as
an avalanche, which occurs in the mountains) are described in
Chapter 3: Adventures, Environmental hazards common to more

than one setting are detailed below.

ACID EFFECTS

|Corrosive acids deals 146 points of damage per round of exposure |
except in the case of total immersion (such as into a vat of acid), |
which deals 10d6 points of damage per round. An attack with acid,
such as from a hurled vial or a monster's spittle, counts as a round
of exposure.
The fumes from most acids are inhaled poisons. Those who
come close enough to a large body of acid to dunk a creature in it
umust make a DC 13 Fortitude save or take 1 point of Constitution
idamage. All such characters must make a second save 1 minute
pater or take another 1d¢ points of Constitution damage.
Creatures immune to acid’s caustic properties might still drown.
Lin it if they are totally immersed (see Drowning. page 304).

COLD DANGERS

\The prickly fingers of icy death have robbed many an adventurer
of her life. Prolonged exposure to cold temperatures and harsh
weather can wear down a character who isnt protected against the
climate. Hypothermia, frostbite, and exhaustion can quickly kill
in bad weather. The best defense against cold and exposure is to,
get under cover and keep warm.

Cold and exposure deal nonlethal damage to the victim. This)
nonlethal damage cannot be recovered until the character gets out,
of the cold and warms up again. Once a character is rendered
unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the
cold and exposure begins to deal lethal damage at the same rate.

An unprotected character in cold weather (below 40° F) must
make a Fortitude save.cach hour (DC 15, + 1per previous check)
or take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage. A character who has the

| Survival skill may receive a bonus on this saving throw and may

ibe able to apply this bonus to other characters as well (see the skill
idescription, page 83 of the Player's Handbook).

In conditions of severe cold or exposure (below 0° F), an unpro-
tected character must make.a Fortitude save once every. 10 minutes
(DC 15, +1 per previous check), taking 1d6 points of nonlethal dam-
age on each failed save. A character who has the Survival skill may
receive a bonus on this saving throw and may be able to apply this
bonus to other characters as well (see the skill description, page 83
of the Player's Handbook), Characters wearing winter clothing only
need check once per hour for cold and exposure damage.

Acharacter who takes any nonlethal damage from cold or expo-

,sure is beset by frostbite or hypothermia (treat her as fatigued; see

ipage 301), These penalties end when the character recovers the

jnonlethal damage she took from the.cold and exposure.

}_Extreme.cold (below —20" F) deals 1d6 points of lethal damage

jper.minute (no save). In addition, a character must make a Forti-

vtude save (DC 15, +1 per previous check) or take 1d4 points of.
nonlethal damage. Those wearing metal armor or coming into,
contactavith very cold metal are affected as if by a chill metal spell.

 

  

Ice Effects.
Characters.walking on ice must spend 2 squares of movement.to|
enter.a square covered by ice, and the DC for Balance and Tumble
checks increases by +S. Characters in prolonged contact with ice,

jmay run the risk of taking damage from severe cold (see above).

DARKNESS
The adventurers are exploring a cavern passageway when a whis-
pered spell in the shadows extinguishes Jozan’s daylight spell,
plunging the chamber into complete darkness, The soft jingle of |
\mail and rasp of swords drawn from scabbards announces a drow
attack.

Darkvision allows many characters and monsters to see per-
fectly well without any light at all, but characters. with normal,
vision (or low-light vision, for that matter) can be rendered com-,
pletely blind by putting out the lights. Torches or lanterns can be

blown out by sudden gusts of subterranean wind, magical light
jsources can be dispelled or countered, or magical traps might}
\create fields of impenetrable darkness.

In many cases, some characters or monsters might be able to
see, while others are blinded. For purposes of the following points,

a blinded creature is one who simply cant see through the sur-
rounding darkness,

—Creatures blinded by darkness lose the ability 1o.deal extra
damage due to precision (for example, a rangers favored enemy or
a sneak attack). —

—Blinded creatures are hampered in their movement, and pay
2 squares of movement per square moved into (double normal,
_cost), Blinded creatures can't run or charge.

—All opponents have total concealment from_a blinded crea-
ture, so the blinded creature has a $0% miss chance.in.combat..A
blinded creature must first pinpoint the location of an opponent,
in order to attack the right square; if the blinded crearure launches,
an attack without pinpointing its foe, it artacks a random square
within its reach. For ranged attacks or spells against a foe whose
location is not pinpointed, roll to determine which adjacent
square the blinded creature is facing; its attack is directed at the
closest target that lies in that direction.

—A blinded creature loses its Dexterity adjustment to AC and
takes a~2 penalty to AC.

—A blinded creature takes at penalty on Search checks and
most Strength- and. Dexterity-based skill checks, including any
with an armor check penalty. A creature blinded by darkness auto-
matically fails any skill check relying on vision.

—Creatures blinded by darkness cannot use gaze attacks and
are immune to. gaze attacks.

A creature blinded by darkness can make a Listen check as a free
action each round in order to locate foes (DC equal to opponents’
Move Silently checks). A successful check lets a blinded character
hearan unseen creature “over there somewhere,” It's almost
impossible to pinpoint the location of an unseen creature. A
Listen.check that beats. the DC by. 20 reveals the unseen creature's
square (but the unseen creature still has total concealment from
the blinded creature),

—A blinded creature can grope about to find unseen creatures.
A character can make a touch attack with his hands or a weapon
into two adjacent squares using a standard action. If an. unseen |
target is in the designated square, there is a 50% miss.chance.on,
the rouch attack. If successful, the groping character deals no,
,damage but has pinpointed the unseen creature's currentlocation.|
(Uf the unseen creature moves, its location is once again!
unknown.)

—If a blinded creature is struck by an unseen foe, the blinded!
character pinpoints the location of the creature thar struck him
(until the unseen creature moves, of course). The only exception is
if the unseen creature has a reach greater than 5 feet (in which

 
 
  
 
    
  
 
    
  
   
    
  
 
   
 
