takes 1d6 points of damage immediately, In cach subsequent
round, the burning character must make another Reflex saving
throw, Failure means he takes another 1dé points of damage that
round. Success means that the fire has gone out. (Thatis, once he
succeeds on his saving throw, he's no longer on fire.) {
A character.on fire may automatically extinguish the flames)
by jumping into enough water. to douse himself. If no body. of,
(water is at hand, rolling on the ground or smothering the fire,
{with cloaks or the like permits the character another save with a)
.+4.bonus, = = —t
Those unlucky enough to have their clothes or equipment!
icatch fire must make DC 15 Reflex saves for each item. Flammable
sitems that fail take the same amount of damage as the character.

   
  
  
        
      

Lava Effects

Lava or magma deals 2d6 points of damage per round of exposure,
yexceptin the case of xotal immersion (such as when a character
falls into the crater of an active volcano), which deals 20dé6 points |
\ofdamage per round.

Damage from magma continues for 1d3 rounds after exposure |
ceases, but this additional damage is only half of that dealt during
actual contact (thar is, 1dé or 10d6 points per round).

An immunity or resistance to fire serves as an immunity to lava
or magma. However, a creature immune to fire might still drown
if completely immersed in leva (see Drowning, below),

SMOKE EFFECTS
\Acharacter who breathes heavy smoke must make a Fortitude
jsave each round (DC 15, +1 per previous check) or spend that
round choking and coughing. A character who chokes for 2 con-
\secutive rounds takes 1d6 points of nonlethal damage.

Smoke obscures vision, giving concealment (20% miss chance)
to characters within it.

STARVATION AND THIRST

Characters might find themselves without food or water and with
no means.to.obtain them, In normal climates, Medium characters.
need at least.a gallon of fluids and about a pound of decent food |
per day ro avoid starvation, (Small characters need half as much.)
In very hot climates, characters need two or three times as much |
water to avoid dehydration, +

A character can go without water for 1 day plus a number of
hours equal to his Constitution score. After this time, the charac-
ter must makea Constitution check each hour (DC.10, +1 foreach
previous check) ot take 1dé points of nonlethal damage.

A character.can go without food for 3.days, in growing discom-
fort. After this time, the character must make a Constitution
check each day (DC 10, +1 for each previous check) or take 1dé

|points of nonlethal damage.

Characters who have taken nonlethal damage from lack of food

lorwater are fatigued (see page 8+). Nonlethal damage from thirst
or starvation cannot be recovered until the character gets food or
water, as needed—not even magic that restores hit points (such as
cure light wounds) heals this damage.

SUFFOCATION
A character who has no air to breathe can hold her breath for 2
rounds per point of Constitution. After this period of time, the
character must make a DC 10 Constitution check in onder to con-
stinue holding her breath. The save must be repeated each round,
with. the DC increasing by +1 for cach previous success.
}—When the character fails one of these Constitution checks, she
Jbegins to suffocate, In the first round, she falls unconscious (0 hit
{points). In the following round, she drops to —1 hit points and is
idying. In.the third round, she suffocates.

Slow Suffocation: A Medium character can breathe easily for,
6 hours ina sealed chamber measuring 10 feet on a side. After that.

time, the character takes 1d6 points of nonlethal damage every.15.,
minutes, Each additional Medium character or significant fire
source (a torch, for example) proportionally reduces the time the |
air will last, 4
For example, two people can last for 3 hours, after which they
jeach take 146 points of nonlethal damage per 15 minutes. If they
yhave a torch (equivalent to. another Medium character in terms of
the air it uses), the air cuns.outin only 2 hours,

Small characters consume half as much air as Medium charac-
ters, A larger volume of air, of course, lasts fora longer.time..So, for,
instance, if two humans and a gnome ate in a sealed chamber}
measuring 20 feet by 20 feet by 10 feet, and they have a torch, the
air will last almost 7 hours (6 hours/3.5 people and torches x 4 10-

ft. cubes = 6,86 hours),

WATER DANGERS

Historically, waterways were one of the most important modes of

{travel and communication within and between countries. On the
jother hand, characters on foot will find that lakes, rivers, and

{streams often block their travels in the wilderness. What's more,
underground streams, cisterns, sewers, and moats are all part of
the dungeon environment,

Water presents adventurers with five general problems. First,
it's an obstacle that.cen block their movement. Second, characters
in the water face the danger of drowning or losing gear. Third, a
character caught in fast-moving water can be swept away fromthe
rest of his party and bartered or killed by rapids and waterfalls,
{Fourth, really deep water deals damage from the great pressure it)
exerts, Finally, exposure to cold water can be dangerous, afflicting |
characters with hypothermia.

The skills most.commonly used in dealing with water.as.an,
obstacle are Swim and Profession (sailor). Unfortunately, not}
every character who gets into the water has these skills,

Any character can wade in relatively calm water that isntover
his head, no check required (hence the importance of fords), Sim-
ilarly, swimming in calm water only requires skill checks with a
DC of 10. Trained swimmers can just take 10. (Remember, how-
ever, that armor or heavy gear makes any attempt at swimming
much more difficult. See the Swim skill description, page 84 of the
Player's Handbook.)

By contrast, fast-moving water is much more dangerous. On a
successful DC 15 Swim check or a DC.15 Strength check, it deals
1d3 points of nonlethal damage per round (1d6 points of lethal
damage if flowing over rocks and cascades). Ona failed check, the
character must make another check that round to avoid going
under,

Very deep water is not only generally pitch black, posing a nav-
igational hazard, but worse, it deals water pressure damage of 1d6
points per minute for every 100 feet the character is below the sur-
face. A successful Fortitude save (DC 15, +1 for each previous
check) means the diver takes no damage in that minute.

Very cold water deals 146 points of nonlethal damage from
hypothermia per minute.of exposure.

Drowning

Any character can hold her breath for a number of rounds equal
to twice her Constitution score. After this period of time, the
character must make a DC 10 Constitution check every_round
in orderto continue holding her breath. Each round, the DC)
increases by 1, +

When the character finally fails her Constitution check, she,
begins to drown In the first round, she falls unconscious (0 hp).
In the following round, she drops to —1 hit points.and is dying. In|
the third round, she drowns,

It.is possible to drown in substances other than water, such as
sand, quicksand, fine dust, and silos full of grain.
