 
 5
/rhombus4 Roll a d20. 
/rhombus4 Add any relevant modifiers. 
/rhombus4 Compare the result to a target number. 
If the result equals or exceeds the target number (set by the DM 
or given in the rules), your character succeeds. If the result is lower 
than the target number, you fail. 
 
THE RULES 
Important: You don’t have to memorize this book to play the 
game. Once you understand the basics, start playing! Use this book 
as reference during play. When in doubt, stick to the basics, keep 
playing, and have fun. 
One part of the book you may end up referring to frequently, at 
least for a while, is the glossary that begins on page 304. Here’s 
where you’ll find definitions of the terms we use in the rules and 
information on how a character is affected by certain conditions 
(such as being stunned). If you come across a term you’re not 
familiar with and you want to know more, look it up in the glossary 
(and also check the index, of course). 
 
WHAT YOU NEED TO PLAY 
Your group needs these items to play D&D. 
/rhombus4 The Player’s Handbook, Dungeon Master’s Guide, and Monster Manual 
revised core rulebooks. (All players might want to have their own 
copies of the books.) 
/rhombus4 A copy of the character sheet at the back of this book for each 
player. 
/rhombus4 A battle grid. The Dungeon Master’s Guide contains one. 
/rhombus4 Miniatures to represent each character and the monsters that 
challenge them. 
/rhombus4 A set of dice for each player. A set of dice includes at least one 
four-sided die (d4), four six-sided dice (d6), one eight-sided die 
(d8), two ten-sided dice (d10), one twelve-sided die (d12), and one 
twenty-sided die (d20). 
/rhombus4 Pencils, scrap paper, and graph paper to keep notes and to map 
the locations your characters will explore. 
 
DICE 
We describe dice rolls with expressions such as “3d4+3,” which 
means “roll three four-sided dice and add 3” (resulting in a number 
between 6 and 15). The first number tells you how many dice to roll 
(adding the results together). The number immediately after the “d” 
tells you the type of dice to use. Any number after that indicates a 
quantity that is added or subtracted from the result. Some examples 
include: 
1d8: One eight-sided die, generating a number from 1 to 8. This is 
the amount of damage a longsword deals. 
1d8+2: One eight-sided die plus 2, generating a number from 3 to 
10. A character with a +2 Strength bonus deals this amount of 
damage when using a longsword. 
2d4+2: Two four-sided dice plus 2, resulting in a number from 4 
to 10. This is the amount of damage a 3rd-level wizard deals with a 
magic missile spell. 
d%: Percentile dice work a little differently. You generate a 
number between 1 and 100 by rolling two different-colored ten-
sided dice. One color (designated before you roll) is the tens digit. 
The other is the ones digit. A roll of 7 and 1, for example, give you a 
result of 71. Two 0s represents 100. Some percentile show the tens 
digit in tens (00, 10, 20, etc.) and the ones digit in ones (0, 1, 2, etc.). 
In this case, a roll of 70 and 1 is 71, and 00 and 0 is 100. 
Important! Not every action requires a die roll. Roll dice in 
combat and other dramatic situations when success is never a cer-
tainty. 
The d20 is used to determine whether or not your character suc-
ceeds at an action. The other dice are used to determine what hap-
pens after you succeed. 
Players should roll dice openly so that everyone can see the re-
sults. The DM may make some rolls in secret to build suspense and 
maintain mystery. 
 
WHAT CHARACTERS CAN DO 
A character can try to do anything you can imagine, just as long as it 
fits the scene the DM describes. Depending on the situation, your 
character might want to listen at a door, search an area, bargain with 
a shopkeeper, talk to an ally, jump across a pit, move, use an item, or 
attack an opponent. 
Characters accomplish tasks by making skill checks, ability 
checks, or attack rolls, using the core mechanic. 
 
Skill Checks 
To make a skill check, roll a d20 and add your character’s skill 
modifier. Compare the result to the Difficulty Class (DC) of the task 
at hand. 
An unopposed skill check’s success depends on your result 
compared to a DC set by the DM or the skill’s description (see 
Chapter 4). 
An opposed skill check’s success depends on your result com-
pared to the result of the character opposing your action. The 
opponent’s check might be made using the same skill or a different 
skill, as set forth in the skill’s description. 
 
Ability Checks 
Ability checks are used when a character doesn’t have any ranks in a 
skill and tries to use that skill untrained. (Some skills, however, can’t 
be used untrained.) 
Ability checks are also used to determine success when no skill 
applies. 
To make an ability check, roll a d20 and add your character’s 
modifier for the appropriate ability. 
 
Attack Rolls 
To attack an opponent, roll a d20 and add your character’s attack 
bonus. If the result equals or exceeds the opponent’s Armor Class 
(AC), the attack succeeds. 
On a successful attack, roll the dice indicated for the weapon you 
used to determine how much damage your attack deals. 
Damage reduces hit points (hp). When all of a character’s hit 
points are gone, the character falls unconscious and is dying. (See 
Chapter 8: Combat for details.) 
A critical hit deals more damage. If you roll a natural 20 on an 
attack roll, you threaten a critical hit. Roll again to confirm it. If the 
second attack roll is successful, then the critical hit is confirmed and 
you deal more damage (see page 140 for more information). 
 
THE COMBAT ROUND 
Combat is played in round. Each round represents 6 seconds in the 
game world, regardless of how long it takes to play out the round. 
Combat starts with initiative checks to determine the order of play 
for the entire battle. There are three types of actions: standard 
actions, move actions, and full-round actions. In a round, you can do 
one of these four things: Take a standard action and then a move 
action; take a move action and then a standard action; take two move 
actions; or perform a full-round action. (See Chapter 8: Combat for 
details.) 
 
THE PLAYER’S ROLE 
As a player, you use this handbook to create and run a character. 
Your character is an adventurer, part of a team that regularly delves 
into dungeons and battles monsters. Play wherever everyone feels 
comfortable and there’s a place to set the battle grid and miniatures, 
roll the dice, and spread out your books and character sheets. 
The DM sets each scene and describes the action. It’s your job to 
decide what your character is like, how he or she relates to the other 
adventurers, and act accordingly. You can play a serious paladin or a 
INTRODUCTION 