 
 12 
Table 2–1: Racial Ability Adjustments 
Race Ability Adjustments Favored Class 
Human None Any 
Dwarf +2 Constitution, –2 Charisma Fighter 
Elf +2 Dexterity, –2 Constitution Wizard 
Gnome +2 Constitution, –2 Strength Bard 
Half-elf None Any 
Half-orc +2 Strength, –2 Intelligence 1, Barbarian 
 –2 Charisma 
Halfling +2 Dexterity, –2 Strength Rogue 
1 A half-orc’s starting Intelligence score is always at least 3. If this 
adjustment would lower the character’s score to 1 or 2, his score is 
nevertheless 3.
 
 
RACE AND LANGUAGES 
In a big city, visitors can hear all manner of languages being spoken. 
Dwarves haggle over gems in Dwarven, elf sages engage in learned 
debates in Elven, and preachers call out prayers in Celestial. The 
language heard most, however, is Common, a tongue shared by all 
who take part in the culture at large. With all these languages in use, 
it is easy for people to learn other languages, and adventurers often 
speak several tongues. 
All characters know how to speak Common. A dwarf, elf, gnome, 
half-elf, half-orc, or halfling also speaks a racial language, as 
appropriate. A smart character (one who had an Intelligence bonus 
at 1st level) speaks other languages as well, one extra language per 
point of Intelligence bonus as a starting character. Select your 
character’s bonus languages (if any) from the list found in his or her 
race’s description later in this chapter. 
Literacy: Any character except a barbarian can read and write all 
the languages he or she speaks. (A barbarian can become literate by 
spending skill points, see Illiteracy, page 25.) 
Class-Related Languages:  Clerics, druids, and wizards can 
choose certain languages as bonus languages even if they’re not on 
the lists found in the race descriptions. These class-related languages 
are as follows: 
Cleric: Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal. 
Druid: Sylvan. 
Wizard: Draconic. 
 
HUMANS 
Most humans are the descendants of pioneers, conquerors, traders, 
travelers, refugees, and other people on the move. As a result, 
human lands are home to a mix of people—physically, culturally, 
religiously, and politically different. Hardy or fine, light-skinned or 
dark, showy or austere, primitive or civilized, devout or impious, 
humans run the gamut. 
Personality: Humans are the most adaptable, flexible, and ambi-
tious people among the common races. They are diverse in their 
tastes, morals, customs, and habits. Others accuse them of having 
little respect for history, but it’s only natural that humans, with their 
relatively short life spans and constantly changing cultures, would 
have a shorter collective memory than dwarves, elves, gnomes, or 
halflings. 
Physical Description:  Humans typically stand from 5 feet to a 
little over 6 feet tall and weigh from 125 to 250 pounds, with men 
noticeably taller and heavier than women. Thanks to their penchant 
for migration and conquest, and to their short life spans, humans are 
more physically diverse than other common races. Their skin shades 
range from nearly black to very pale, their hair from black to blond 
(curly, kinky, or straight), and their facial hair (for men) from sparse 
to thick. Plenty of humans have a dash of nonhuman blood, and 
they may demonstrate hints of elf, orc, or other lineages. Members 
of this race are often ostentatious or unorthodox in their grooming 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 