 
 
14 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass hu-
man takes an experience point penalty, her highest-level class 
does not count. (See XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60.) 
 
DWARVES 
Dwarves are known for their skill in warfare, their ability to with-
stand physical and magical punishment, their knowledge of the 
earth’s secrets, their hard work, and their capacity for drinking ale. 
Their mysterious kingdoms, carved out from the insides of moun-
tains, are renowned for the marvelous treasures that they produce as 
gifts or for trade. 
Personality: Dwarves are slow to laugh or jest 
and suspicious of strangers, but they are 
generous to those few who earn 
their trust. Dwarves value gold, 
gems, jewelry, and art objects 
made with these precious 
materials, and they have 
been known to succumb 
to greed. They fight 
neither recklessly nor 
timidly, but with a care-
ful courage and tenacity. 
Their sense of justice is 
strong, but at its worst it can 
turn into a thirst for ven-
geance. Among gnomes, who 
get along famously with 
dwarves, a mild oath is “If I’m 
lying, may I cross a dwarf.” 
Physical Description:  
Dwarves stand only 4 to 4-1/2 
feet tall, but they are so broad 
and compact that they are, on 
average, almost as heavy as 
humans. Dwarf men are 
slightly taller and noticeably 
heavier than dwarf women. 
Dwarves’ skin is typically 
deep tan or light brown, 
and their eyes are dark. 
Their hair is usually black, 
gray, or brown, and worn 
long. Dwarf men value 
their beards highly and 
groom them very 
carefully. Dwarves favor 
simple styles for their 
hair, beards, and clothes. 
Dwarves are considered adults at about age 40, and they can live to 
be more than 400 years old. 
Relations: Dwarves get along fine with gnomes, and passably 
with humans, half-elves, and halflings. Dwarves say, “The difference 
between an acquaintance and a friend is about a hundred years.” 
Humans, with their short life spans, have a hard time forging truly 
strong bonds with dwarves. The best dwarf-human friendships are 
between a human and a dwarf who liked the human’s parents and 
grandparents. Dwarves fail to appreciate elves’ subtlety and art, 
regarding elves as unpredictable, fickle, and flighty. Still, elves and 
dwarves have, through the ages, found common cause in battles 
against orcs, goblins, and gnolls. Through many such joint 
campaigns, the elves have earned the dwarves’ grudging respect. 
Dwarves mistrust half-orcs in general, and the feeling is mutual. 
Luckily, dwarves are fair-minded, and they grant individual half-orcs 
the opportunity to prove themselves. 
Alignment: Dwarves are usually lawful, and they tend toward 
good. Adventuring dwarves are less likely to fit the common mold, 
however, since they’re more likely to be those who did not fit 
perfectly into dwarven society. 
Dwarven Lands:  Dwarven kingdoms usually lie deep beneath 
the stony faces of mountains, where the dwarves mine gems and 
precious metals and forge items of wonder. Trustworthy members of 
other races are welcome in such settlements, though some parts of 
these lands are off limits even to them. Whatever wealth the 
dwarves can’t find in their mountains, they gain through trade. 
Dwarves dislike water travel, so enterprising humans frequently 
handle trade in dwarven goods when travel is along a water route. 
Dwarves in human lands are typically mercenaries, weapon-
smiths, armorsmiths, jewelers, and artisans. Dwarf bodyguards are 
renowned for their courage and loyalty, and they are well rewarded 
for their virtues. 
Religion: The chief deity of the dwarves is Moradin, the 
Soul Forger. He is the creator of the dwarves, and he 
expects his followers to work for the betterment of the 
dwarf race. 
Language: Dwarves speak Dwarven, which has its 
own runic script. Dwarven literature is marked by 
comprehensive histories of kingdoms and wars 
through the millennia. The Dwarven alphabet is also 
used (with minor variations) for the Gnome, Giant, 
Goblin, Orc, and Terran languages. Dwarves often 
speak the languages of their friends (humans and 
gnomes) and enemies. Some also learn Terran, the 
strange language of earth-based creatures such as 
xorn. 
Names: A dwarf’s name is granted to him by his clan 
elder, in accordance with tradition. Every proper dwarven 
name has been used and reused down through the genera-
tions. A dwarf’s name is not his own. It belongs to his clan. 
If he misuses it or brings shame to it, his clan will strip him 
of it. A dwarf stripped of his name is forbidden by dwarven 
law to use any dwarven name in its place. 
Male Names:  Barendd, Brottor, Eberk, Einkil, Oskar, 
Rurik, Taklinn, Torderk, Traubon, Ulfgar, Veit. 
Female Names:  Artin, Audhild, Dagnal, Diesa, 
Gunnloda, Hlin, Ilde, Liftrasa, Sannl, Torgga. 
Clan Names:  Balderk, 
Dankil, Gorunn, Holderhek, 
Loderr, Lutgehr, Rumnaheim, 
Strakeln, Torunn,  Ungart. 
Adventurers: A dwarven 
adventurer may be motivated 
by crusading zeal, a love of 
excitement, or simple greed. As 
long as his accomplishments 
bring honor to his clan, his 
deeds earn him respect and 
status. Defeating giants and 
claiming powerful magic 
weapons are sure ways for a 
dwarf to earn the respect of 
other dwarves. 
 
DWARF RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 +2 Constitution, –2 Charisma: Dwarves are stout and tough but 
tend to be gruff and reserved. 
/rhombus4 Medium: As Medium creatures, dwarves have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 
/rhombus4 Dwarf base land speed is 20 feet. However, dwarves can move at 
this speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or whose 
speed is reduced in such conditions). 
/rhombus4 Darkvision: Dwarves can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision 
is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and 
dwarves can function just fine with no light at all. 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 