 
 23
For multiclass characters, feats and ability score increases are 
gained according to character level, not class level. Thus, a 3rd-level 
wizard/1st-level fighter is a 4th-level character overall and eligible 
for her first ability score boost. 
 
CLASS DESCRIPTIONS 
The rest of this chapter, up to the section on multiclass characters, 
describes the character classes in alphabetical order. Each descrip-
tion begins with a general discussion in “game world” terms, the sort 
of description that characters in the world could understand and the 
way such a character might describe himself or herself. This 
information is followed by brief advice on such a character’s typical 
role in a group of adventurers. These descriptions are general; 
individual members of a class may differ in their attitudes, outlooks, 
and other aspects. 
 
GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Following the general class description comes game rule informa-
tion. Not all of the following categories apply to every class. 
Abilities: The Abilities entry tells you which abilities are most 
important for a character of that class. Players are welcome to “play 
against type,” but a typical character of that class will have his or her 
highest ability scores where they’ll do the most good (or, in game 
world terms, be attracted to the class that most suits his or her 
talents or for which he or she is best qualified). 
Alignment: A few classes restrict a character’s possible align-
ments. For example, a bard must have a nonlawful alignment. An 
entry of “Any” means that characters of this class are not restricted 
in alignment. 
Hit Die:  The type of Hit Die used by characters of the class 
determines the number of hit points gained per level. 
 
HD Type Class 
 d4 Sorcerer, wizard 
 d6 Bard, rogue 
 d8 Cleric, druid, monk, ranger 
 d10 Fighter, paladin 
 d12 Barbarian  
 
A character rolls one Hit Die 
each time he or she gains a 
new level, then applies any 
Constitution modifier to the 
roll, and adds the result to his or 
her hit point total. Thus, a 
character has the same number 
of Hit Dice as levels. For his or 
her first Hit Die, a 1st-level 
character gets the maximum 
hit points rather than rolling 
(although Constitution modi-
fiers, positive or negative, still 
apply). 
For example, Vadania gets a d8 
Hit Die because she’s a druid. At 1st 
level, she gets 8 hit points instead 
of rolling. Since she has a 
Constitution score of 13, she 
applies a +1 bonus, raising her hit points to 9. When she 
reaches 2nd level (and every level thereafter), Vadania’s 
player rolls a d8, adds 1 (for her Constitution bonus), and then adds 
the total to Vadania’s hit points. 
If your character has a Constitution penalty and gets a result of 0 
or lower after the penalty is applied to the Hit Die roll, ignore the 
roll and add 1 to your character’s hit point total anyway. It is not 
possible to lose hit points (or not receive any) when gaining a level, 
even for a character with a rotten Constitution score. 
Class Table: This table details how a character improves as he or 
she gains levels in the class. Some of this material is repeated from 
Table 3–1: Base Save and Base Attack Bonuses, but with more detail 
on how the numbers apply to that class. Class tables typically 
include the following: 
Level: The character’s level in that class. 
Base Attack Bonus:  The character’s base attack bonus and number 
of attacks. 
Fort Save:  The base save bonus on Fortitude saving throws. The 
character’s Constitution modifier also applies. 
Ref Save: The base save bonus on Reflex saving throws. The char-
acter’s Dexterity modifier also applies. 
Will Save: The base save bonus on Will saving throws. The char-
acter’s Wisdom modifier also applies. 
Special: Level-dependent class abilities, each explained in the Class 
Features section that follows. 
Spells per Day:  How many spells of each spell level the character 
can cast each day. If the entry is “—” for a given level of spells, the 
character may not cast any spells of that level. If the entry is “0,” the 
character may cast spells of that level only if he or she is entitled to 
bonus spells because of a high ability score tied to spellcasting. 
(Bonus spells for wizards are based on Intelligence; bonus spells for 
clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers are based on Charisma. See 
Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8.) If the entry is 
a number other than 0, the character may cast that many spells plus 
any bonus spells each day. 
A character can always choose to prepare a lower-level spell to fill 
a higher-level slot (see Spell Slots, page 178). 
Class Skills:  This section of a class description gives the class’s 
list of class skills, the number of skill points the character starts with 
at 1st level, and the number of skill points gained each level 
thereafter. A character gets some number of skill points each level, 
such depending on the class in question, such as 6 for a ranger 
or 8 for a rogue. To this number, apply the character’s 
Intelligence modifier (and 1 bonus point, if the character 
is human) to determine the total skill points gained each 
level (but always at least 1 skill point per level, even for a 
character with an Intelligence penalty). A 1st-level char-
acter starts with four times this number of skill points. 
Since the maximum ranks in a class skill for a character is 
the character’s level + 3, at 1st level you can buy as many as 4 
ranks in any class skill, at a cost of 1 skill point per rank. 
For example, Vadania is a half-elf druid, so she gets 4 
skill points per level. She has a +1 Intelligence modi-
fier, so that goes up to 5 skill points per 
level. At 1st level, she gets four 
times that amount, or 20 skill 
points. Her maximum 
rank for a class skill at 
1st level is 4, so she 
could, for example, 
divvy up her 20 
points among five class 
skills with 4 ranks each. 
(It’s more useful to 
have a higher 
score in a few 
skills than a 
lower score in many.) 
You can also buy skills from other classes’ skill lists, but each skill 
point only buys 1/2 rank in these cross-class skills, and you can buy 
only half the maximum ranks a class skill would have (thus, the 
maximum rank for a cross-class skill at 1st level is 2). 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 