 
 24 
Class Features: Special characteristics of the class. When appli-
cable, this section also mentions restrictions and disadvantages of 
the class. Class features include some or all of the following. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  This section details which weapons 
and armor types the character is proficient with. Regardless of 
training, cumbersome armor interferes with certain skills (such as 
Climb) and with the casting of most arcane spells. Characters can 
become proficient with other weapon or armor types by acquiring 
the appropriate Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Shield 
Proficiency, and Weapon Proficiency (exotic, martial or simple) 
feats. (See Chapter 5: Feats.) 
Spells: Wizards, sorcerers, clerics, druids, and bards use spells. 
Fighters, barbarians, rogues, and monks do not. Paladins and rangers 
gain the ability to use spells at 4th level. 
Other Features:  Each class has certain unique capabilities. Some, 
such as the rogue, have few; others, such as the monk, have many. 
Some abilities are supernatural or spell-like. Using a spell-like 
ability is essentially like casting a spell (but without components; see 
Components, page 174), and it provokes attacks of opportunity. 
Using a supernatural ability is not like casting a spell. (See Chapter 
8: Combat, especially Attacks of Opportunity, page 137, and Use 
Special Ability, page 142.) 
Ex-Members: If, for some reason, a character is forced to give up 
this class, these are the rules for what happens. Unless otherwise 
noted in the class description, an ex-member of a class retains any 
weapon and armor proficiencies he or she has gained. 
Starting Package:  This section provides suggested feats, skills, 
equipment, and other details for a 1st-level character of this class. 
You can ignore this information and create a character from scratch, 
or use the package as is for your first character (simply copying the 
details onto your character sheet), or take some portions of the 
package (such as equipment) and choose other details (such as skills) 
yourself. Dungeon Masters can also use these packages to quickly 
create 1st-level nonplayer characters. 
The starting packages assume that you spend 4 skill points on 
every skill you start with (so as to excel in a few things rather than 
dabble in many). The skill table in each package presents the skills 
in order of probable importance to the character. 
Each starting package is associated with a race. The packages do 
not take into account racial traits, so be sure to note your character’s 
racial traits (described in Chapter 2: Races), including ability 
modifiers and bonuses on skill checks. The package also does not list 
all class features, so note your character’s class features as well. 
Gear for a character means adventuring gear, not clothes. Assume 
that your character owns at least one outfit of normal clothes. Pick 
any one of the following clothing outfits (see Clothing in Chapter 7: 
Equipment) for free: artisan’s outfit, entertainer’s outfit, explorer’s 
outfit, monk’s outfit, peasant’s outfit, scholar’s outfit, or traveler’s 
outfit. 
 
BARBARIAN 
From the frozen wastes of the north and the hellish jungles of the 
south come brave, even reckless, warriors. Civilized people call them 
barbarians or berserkers and suspect them of mayhem, impiety, and 
atrocities. These “barbarians,” however, have proven their mettle and 
their value to those who would be their allies. To enemies who 
underestimated them, they have proved their cunning, resource-
fulness, persistence, and mercilessness. 
Adventures: Adventuring is the best chance barbarians have of 
finding a place in a civilized society. They’re not well suited to the 
monotony of guard duty or other mundane tasks. Barbarians also 
have no trouble with the dangers, the uncertainties, and the wan-
dering that adventuring involves. They may adventure to defeat 
hated enemies. They have a noted distaste for that which they 
consider unnatural, including undead, demons, and devils. 
Characteristics: The barbarian is an excellent warrior. Where 
the fighter’s skill in combat comes from training and discipline, 
however, the barbarian has a powerful rage. While in this berserk 
fury, he becomes stronger and tougher, better able to defeat his foes 
and withstand their attacks. These rages leave him winded, and he 
has the energy for only a few such spectacular displays per day, but 
those few rages are usually sufficient. He is at home in the wild, and 
he runs at great speed. 
Alignment: Barbarians are never lawful. They may be honorable, 
but at heart they are wild. This wildness is their strength, and it 
could not live in a lawful soul. At best, barbarians of chaotic 
alignment are free and expressive. At worst, they are thoughtlessly 
destructive. 
Religion: Some barbarians distrust established religions and 
prefer an intuitive, natural relationship to the cosmos over formal 
worship. Others devote themselves to powerful deities, such as Kord 
(god of strength), Obad-Hai (god of nature), or Erythnul (god of 
slaughter). A barbarian is capable of fierce devotion to his god. 
Background: Barbarians come from uncivilized lands or from 
barbaric tribes on the outskirts of civilization. A barbarian adventu-
rer may have been lured to the settled lands by the promise of 
riches, may have escaped after being captured in his homeland and 
sold into “civilized” slavery, may have been recruited as a soldier, or 
may have been driven out of his homeland by invaders. Barbarians 
share no bond with each other unless they come from the same tribe 
or land. In fact, they think of themselves not as barbarians but as 
warriors. 
Races: Human barbarians come from the distant wild lands on 
the edge of civilization. Most half-orc barbarians lived among orcs 
before abandoning them for human lands. Dwarf barbarians are rare, 
usually hailing from dwarven kingdoms that have fallen into 
barbarism as a result of recurrent war with goblinoids, orcs, and 
giants. Barbarians of other races are very rare. 
Among the brutal humanoids, barbarians are more common than 
fighters. Orcs and ogres are especially likely to be barbarians. 
Other Classes: As people of the wild, barbarians are most com-
fortable in the company of rangers, druids, and clerics of nature 
deities, such as Obad-Hai or Ehlonna. Many barbarians admire the 
talents and spontaneity of bards, and some are enthusiastic lovers of 
music. Barbarians don’t trust that which they don’t understand, and 
that includes wizardry, which they call “book magic.” They find sor-
cerers more understandable than wizards, but maybe that’s just 
because sorcerers tend to be more charismatic. Monks, with their 
studied, practiced, deliberate approach to combat, sometimes have a 
hard time seeing eye to eye with barbarians, but members of these 
classes aren’t necessarily hostile to each other. Barbarians have no 
special attitudes toward fighters, paladins, clerics, or rogues. 
Role: A barbarian’s typical primary role in a group of adventurers 
is as a front-line combat specialist. No other character can match his 
sheer toughness. He can also serve as a good scout, thanks to his 
speed, skill selection, and trap sense. 
 
GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Barbarians have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Strength is important for barbarians because of its role 
in combat, and several barbarian class skills are based on Strength. 
Dexterity is also useful to barbarians, especially those who wear light 
armor. Wisdom is also important for several of the barbarian’s class 
skills. A high Constitution score lets a barbarian rage longer (and 
live longer, because it gives him more hit points). 
Alignment: Any nonlawful. 
Hit Die: d12. 
 
Class Skills 
The barbarian’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Climb (Str), Craft (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), 
Jump (Str), Listen (Wis), Ride (Dex), Survival (Wis), and Swim (Str). 
See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (4 + Int modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 4 + Int modifier. 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 