 
 28 
those spells are to resist (see Spells, below). Charisma, Dexterity, and 
Intelligence are important for many of the bard’s class skills. 
Alignment: Any nonlawful. 
Hit Die: d6. 
 
Class Skills 
The bard’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Appraise 
(Int), Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Concentration (Con), 
Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Disguise (Cha), 
Escape Artist (Dex), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Jump 
(Str), Knowledge (all skills, taken individually) (Int), Listen (Wis), 
Move Silently (Dex), Perform (Cha), Profession (Wis), Sense Motive 
(Wis), Sleight of Hand (Dex), Speak Language (n/a), Spellcraft (Int), 
Swim (Str), Tumble (Dex), and Use Magic Device (Cha). See 
Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (6 + Int modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the bard. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  A bard is proficient with all 
simple weapons, plus the longsword, rapier, sap, short sword, 
shortbow, and whip. Bards are proficient with light armor and 
shields (except tower shields). 
Because the somatic components required for bard spells are 
relatively simple, a bard can cast bard spells while wearing light 
armor without incurring the normal arcane spell failure chance. 
However, like any other arcane spellcaster, a bard wearing medium 
or heavy armor or using a shield incurs a chance of arcane spell 
failure if the spell in question has a somatic component (most do). A 
multiclass bard still incurs the normal arcane spell failure chance for 
arcane spells received from other classes. 
Spells: A bard casts arcane spells (the same type of spells available 
to sorcerers and wizards), which are drawn from the bard spell (page 
181) list. He can cast any spell he knows without preparing it ahead 
of time, the way a wizard or cleric must (see below). Every bard spell 
has a verbal component (singing, reciting, or music). 
To learn or cast a spell, a bard must have a Charisma score equal to 
at least 10 + the spell level (Cha 10 for 0-level spells, Cha 11 for 1st-
level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a saving throw 
against a bard’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the bard’s Charisma 
modifier. 
Like other spellcasters, a bard can cast only a certain number of 
spells of each spell level per day. His base daily spell allotment is 
given on Table 3–4: The Bard. In addition, he receives bonus spells 
per day if he has a high Charisma score (see Table 1–1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). When Table 3–4 indicates that 
the bard gets 0 spells per day of a given spell level (for instance, 1st-
level spells for a 2nd-level bard), he gains only the bonus spells he 
would be entitled to based on his Charisma score for that spell level. 
The bard’s selection of spells is extremely limited. A bard begins 
play knowing four 0-level spells (also called cantrips) of your choice. 
At most new bard levels, he gains one or more new spells, as 
indicated on Table 3–5: Bard Spells Known. (Unlike spells per day, 
the number of spells a bard knows is not affected by his Charisma 
score; the numbers on Table 3–5 are fixed.) 
Upon reaching 5th level, and at every third bard level after that 
(8th, 11th, and so on), a bard can choose to learn a new spell in place 
of one he already knows. In effect, the bard “loses” the old spell in 
exchange for the new one. The new spell’s level must be the same as 
that of the spell being exchanged, and it must be at least two levels 
lower than the highest-level bard spell the bard can cast. For 
instance, upon reaching 5th level, a bard could trade a single 0-level 
spell (two spell levels below the highest-level bard spell he can cast, 
which is 2nd) for a different 0-level spell. At 8th level, he could trade 
in a single 0-level or 1st-level spell (since he now can cast 3rd-level 
bard spells) for a different spell of the same level. A bard may swap 
only a single spell at any given level, and must choose whether or 
not to swap the spell at the same time that he gains new spells 
known for the level. 
As noted above, a bard need not prepare his spells in advance. He 
can cast any spell he knows at any time, assuming he has not yet 
used up his allotment of spells per day for the spell’s level. For 
example, at 1st level, Gimble the bard can cast two 0-level spells per 
day for being 1st level (see Table 3–4: The Bard). However, he knows 
four 0-level spells: detect magic, ghost sound, light, and read magic (see 
Table 3–5: Bard Spells Known). Thus, on any given day, he can cast 
some combination of those four spells a total of two times. He does 
not have to decide ahead of time which spells he’ll cast. 
Bardic Knowledge:  A bard picks up a lot of stray knowledge 
while wandering the land and learning stories from other bards. He 
may make a special bardic knowledge check with a bonus equal to 
his bard level + his Intelligence modifier to see whether he knows 
some relevant information about local notable people, legendary 
items, or noteworthy places. (If the bard has 5 or more ranks in 
Knowledge (history), he gains a +2 bonus on this check.) 
 
DC Type of Knowledge Examples 
10 Common, known by at least A local mayor’s reputation for 
 a substantial minority drinking; common legends 
 of the local population. about a powerful place of 
  mystery. 
20 Uncommon but available, A local priest’s shady past; 
 known by only a few people legends about a powerful 
 in the area. Magic item. 
25 Obscure, known by few, A knight’s family history; 
 hard to come by. legends about a minor place 
  of mystery or magic item 
30 Extremely obscure, known A mighty wizard’s childhood 
 by very few, possibly forgotten nickname; the history of a 
 by most who once knew petty magic item. 
 it, possibly known only by 
 those who don’t understand 
 the significance of the knowledge.
 
 
Table 3–5: Bard Spells Known 
 ———————— Spells Known ———————— 
Level 0 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 
 1st 4 — — — — — — 
 2nd 5 2 1 — — — — — 
 3rd 6 3 — — — — — 
 4th 6 3 2 1 — — — — 
 5th 6 4 3 — — — — 
 6th 6 4 3 — — — — 
 7th 6 4 4 2 1 — — — 
 8th 6 4 4 3 — — — 
 9th 6 4 4 3 — — — 
10th 6 4 4 4 2
1 — — 
11th 6 4 4 4 3 — — 
12th 6 4 4 4 3 — — 
13th 6 4 4 4 4 2 1 — 
14th 6 4 4 4 4 3 — 
15th 6 4 4 4 4 3 — 
16th 6 5 4 4 4 4 2 1 
17th 6 5 5 4 4 4 3 
18th 6 5 5 5 4 4 3 
19th 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 
20th 6 5 5 5 5 5 4 
1 Provided the bard has a high enough Charisma score to have a bonus 
spell of this level. 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 