 
 32 
Aura (Ex):  A cleric of a chaotic, evil, good, or lawful deity has a 
particularly powerful aura corresponding to the deity’s alignment 
(see the detect evil spell for details). Clerics who don’t worship a spe-
cific deity but choose the Chaotic, Evil, Good, or Lawful domain 
have a similarly powerful aura of the corresponding alignment. 
Spells: A cleric casts divine spells (the same type of spells avail-
able to the druid, paladin, and ranger), which are drawn from the 
cleric spell list (page 183). However, his alignment may restrict him 
from casting certain spells opposed to his moral or ethical beliefs; 
see Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells, below. A cleric must 
choose and prepare his spells in advance (see below). 
To prepare or cast a spell, a cleric must have a Wisdom score equal 
to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 10 for 0-level spells, Wis 11 for 
1st-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a saving throw 
against a cleric’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the cleric’s Wisdom 
modifier. 
Like other spellcasters, a cleric can cast only a certain number of 
spells of each spell level per day. His base daily spell allotment is 
given on Table 3–7: The Cleric. In addition, he receives bonus spells 
per day if he has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1–1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). A cleric also gets one domain 
spell of each spell level he can cast, starting at 1st level. When a 
cleric prepares a spell in a domain spell slot, it must come from one 
of his two domains (see Deities, Domains, and Domain Spells, 
below). 
Clerics do not acquire their spells from books or scrolls, nor do 
they prepare them through study. Instead, they meditate or pray for 
their spells, receiving them through their own strength of faith or as 
divine inspiration. Each cleric must choose a time at which he must 
spend 1 hour each day in quiet contemplation or supplication to 
regain his daily allotment of spells. Typically, this hour is at dawn or 
noon for good clerics and at dusk or midnight for evil ones. Time 
spent resting has no effect on whether a cleric can prepare spells. A 
cleric may prepare and cast any spell on the cleric spell list (page 
183), provided that he can cast spells of that level, but he must 
choose which spells to prepare during his daily meditation. 
Deity, Domains, and Domain Spells:  Choose a deity for your 
cleric. Sample deities are listed on Table 3–7: Deities and described 
on page 106–108. The cleric’s deity influences his alignment, what 
magic he can perform, his values, and how others see him. You may 
also choose for your cleric to have no deity. 
If the typical worshipers of a deity include the members of a race, 
a cleric must be of the indicated race to choose that deity as his own. 
(The god may have occasional worshipers of other races, but not 
clerics.) 
When you have chosen an alignment and a deity for your cleric, 
choose two domains from among those given on Table 3–7 for the 
deity. While the clerics of a particular religion are united in their 
reverence for their deity, each cleric emphasizes different aspects of 
the deity’s interests. You can select an alignment domain (Chaos, 
Evil, Good, or Law) for your cleric only if his alignment matches that 
domain. 
If your cleric is not devoted to a particular deity, you still select 
two domains to represent his spiritual inclinations and abilities. The 
restriction on alignment domains still applies. 
Each domain gives your cleric access to a domain spell at each 
spell level he can cast, from 1st on up, as well as a granted power. 
Your cleric gets the granted powers of both the domains selected. 
With access to two domain spells at a given spell level, a cleric 
prepares one or the other each day in his domain spell slot. If a 
domain spell is not on the cleric spell list (page 183), a cleric can 
prepare it only in his domain spell slot. Domain spells and granted 
powers are given in Cleric Domains, pages 185–189. 
For example, Jozan is a 1st-level cleric of Pelor. He chooses Good 
and Healing (from Pelor’s domain options) as his two domains. He 
gets the granted powers of both his selected domains. The Good 
domain allows him to cast all spells with the good descriptor at +1 
caster level (as if he were one level higher as a cleric) as a granted 
power, and it gives him access to protection from evil  as a 1st-level 
domain spell. The Healing domain allows him to cast all healing 
subschool spells of the conjuration school at +1 caster level as a 
granted power, and it gives him access to cure light wounds  as a 1st-
level domain spell. When Jozan prepares his spells, he gets one 1st-
level spell for being a 1st-level cleric, one bonus 1st-level spell for 
having a high Wisdom score (15), and one domain spell. The 
domain spell must be one of the two to which he has access, either 
protection from evil or cure light wounds. 
Spontaneous Casting:  A good cleric (or a neutral cleric of a 
good deity) can channel stored spell energy into healing spells that 
the cleric did not prepare ahead of time. The cleric can “lose” any 
prepared spell that is not a domain spell in order to cast any cure 
spell of the same spell level or lower (a cure spell is any spell with 
“cure” in its name).  For example, a good cleric who has prepared 
command (a 1st-level spell) may lose command in order to cast cure 
light wounds  (also a 1st-level spell). Clerics of good deities can cast 
cure spells in this way because they are especially proficient at 
Table 3–7: Deities 
Deity Alignment Domains Typical Worshipers 
Heironeous, god of valor Lawful good Good, Law, War Paladins, fighters, monks 
Moradin, god of the dwarves Lawful good Earth, Good, Law, Protection Dwarves 
Yondalla, goddess of the halflings Lawful good Good, Law, Protection Halflings 
Ehlonna, goddess of the woodlands Neutral good Animal, Good, Plant, Sun Elves, gnomes, half-elves, halflings, 
   rangers, druids 
Garl Glittergold, god of the gnomes Neutral good Good, Protection, Trickery Gnomes 
Pelor, god of the sun Neutral good Good, Healing, Strength, Sun Rangers, bards 
Corellon Larethian, god of the elves Chaotic good Chaos, Good, Protection, War Elves, half-elves, bards 
Kord, god of Strength Chaotic good Chaos, Good, Luck, Strength Fighters, barbarians, rogues, 
   athletes 
Wee Jas, goddess of death and magic Lawful neutral Death, Law, Magic Wizards, necromancers, sorcerers 
St. Cuthbert, god of retribution Lawful neutral Destruction, Law, Protection, Strength Fighters, monks, soldiers 
Boccob, god of magic Neutral Knowledge, Magic, Trickery Wizards, sorcerers, sages 
Fharlanghn, god of roads Neutral Luck, Protection, Travel Bards, adventurers, merchants 
Obad-Hai, god of nature Neutral Air, Animal, Earth, Fire, Plant, Water Druids, barbarians, rangers 
Olidammara, god of thieves Chaotic neutral Chaos, Luck, Trickery Rogues, bards, thieves 
Hextor, god of tyranny Lawful evil Destruction, Evil, Law, War Evil fighters, monks 
Nerull, god of death Neutral evil Death, Evil, Trickery Evil necromancers, rogues 
Vecna, god of secrets Neutral evil Evil, Knowledge, Magic Evil wizards, sorcerers, rogues, spies 
Erythnul, god of slaughter Chaotic evil Chaos, Evil, Trickery, War Evil fighters, barbarians, rogues 
Gruumsh, god of the orcs Chaotic evil Chaos, Evil, Strength, War Half-orcs, orcs 
 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 