 
 36 
Woodland Stride (Ex):  Starting at 2nd level, a druid may move 
through any sort of undergrowth (such as natural thorns, briars, 
overgrown areas, and similar terrain) at her normal speed and with-
out taking damage or suffering any other impairment. However, 
thorns, briars, and overgrown areas that have been magically 
manipulated to impede motion still affect her. 
Trackless Step (Ex):  Starting at 3rd level, a druid leaves no trail 
in natural surroundings and cannot be tracked. She may choose to 
leave a trail if so desired. 
 
THE DRUID’S ANIMAL COMPANION 
A druid’s animal companion is different from a normal animal of its kind
in many ways. The companion is treated as a magical beast, not an
animal, for the purpose of all effects that depend on its type (though it 
retains an animal’s HD, base attack bonus, saves, skill points, and feats).
It is superior to a normal animal of its kind and has special powers, as
described below. 
 
Class Bonus Natural Str/Dex Bonus 
Level HD Armor Adj. Adj. Tricks Special  
1st–2nd  +0 +0 +0 1 Link, share spells
3rd–5th  +2 +2 +1 2 Evasion 
6th–8th  +4 +4 +2 3 Devotion 
9th–11th  +6 +6 +3 4 Multiattack 
12th–14th  +8 +8 +4 5  
15th–17th  +10 +10 +5 6 Improved evasion
18th–20th  +12 +12 +6 7  
 
Animal Companion Basics:  Use the base statistics for a creature of the
companion’s kind, as given in the Monster Manual , but make the 
following changes. 
Class Level: The character’s druid level. The druid’s class levels stack
with levels of any other classes that are entitled to an animal companion
(such as the ranger) such for the purpose of determining the compan-
ion’s abilities and the alternative lists available to the character. 
Bonus HD:  Extra eight-sided (d8) Hit Dice, each of which gains a
Constitution modifier, as normal. Remember that extra Hit Dice improve 
the animal companion’s base attack and base save bonuses. An animal
companion’s base attack bonus is the same as that of a druid of a level
equal to the animal’s HD. An animal companion has good Fortitude and
Reflex saves (treat it as a character whose level equals the animal’s HD).
An animal companion gains additional skill points and feats for bonus
HD as normal for advancing a monster’s Hit Dice (see the Monste
r 
Manual). 
Natural Armor Adj.: The number noted here is an improvement to the
animal companion’s existing natural armor bonus. 
Str/Dex Adj.: Add this value to the animal companion’s Strength and
Dexterity scores. 
Bonus Tricks:  The value given in this column is the total number o f
“bonus” tricks that the animal knows in addition to any that the druid 
might choose to teach it (see the Handle Animal skill, page 74). These
bonus tricks don’t require any training time or Handle Animal checks,
and they don’t count against the normal limit of tricks known by the
animal. The druid selects these bonus tricks, and once selected, they
can’t be changed. 
Link (Ex): A druid can handle her animal companion as a free action,
or push it as a move action, even if she doesn’t have any ranks in the
Handle Animal skill. The druid gains a +4 circumstance bonus on all wild 
empathy checks and Handle Animal checks made regarding an animal
companion. 
Share Spells (Ex):  At the druid’s option, she may have any spell (but
not any spell-like ability) she casts upon herself also affect her animal
companion. The animal companion must be within 5 feet of her at the
time of casting to receive the benefit. If the spell or effect has a duration
other than instantaneous, it stops affecting the animal companion if the
companion moves farther than 5 feet away and will not affect the animal 
again, even if it returns to the druid before the duration expires.
Additionally, the druid may cast a spell with a target of “You” on her
animal companion (as a touch range spell) instead of on herself. A druid
and her animal companion can share spells even if the spells normally
do not affect creatures of the companion’s type (animal). 
Evasion (Ex): If an animal companion is sub
jected to an attack that 
normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, it takes no 
damage if it makes a successful saving throw. 
Devotion (Ex): An animal companion’s devotion to its master is so 
complete that it gains a +4 morale bonus on Will saves against 
enchantment spells and effects. 
Multiattack: An animal companion gains Multiattack as a bonus feat if 
it has three or more natural attacks (see the Monster Manual for details 
on this feat) and does not already have that feat. If it does not have the 
requisite three or more natural attacks, the animal companion instead 
gains a second attack with its primary natural weapon, albeit at a –5 
penalty. 
Improved Evasion (Ex): When sub
jected to an attack that normally 
allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, an animal companion takes 
no damage if it makes a successful saving throw and only half damage i f 
the saving throw fails. 
 
ALTERNATIVE ANIMAL COMPANIONS 
As explained in the text on page 35, a druid of sufficiently high level can 
select her animal companion from one of the following lists, applying the 
indicated adjustment to the druid’s level (in parentheses) for purposes 
of determining the companion’s characteristics and special abilities. 
 
4th Level or Higher (Level –3) 
Ape (animal) Dire weasel 
Bear, black (animal) Leopard (animal) 
Bison (animal) Lizard, monitor (animal) 
Boar (animal) Shark, Large 1 (animal) 
Cheetah (animal) Snake, constrictor (animal) 
Crocodile (animal)
1 Snake, Large viper (animal) 
Dire badger Wolverine (animal) 
Dire bat 
 
7th Level or Higher (Level –6) 
Bear, brown (animal) Dire wolverine 
Crocodile, giant (animal) Elasmosaurus 1 (dinosaur) 
Deinonychus (dinosaur) Lion (animal) 
Dire ape Rhinoceros (animal) 
Dire boar Snake, Huge viper (animal) 
Dire wolf Tiger (animal) 
 
10th Level or Higher (Level –9) 
Bear, polar (animal) Shark, Huge 1 (animal) 
Dire lion Snake, giant constrictor (animal) 
Megaraptor (dinosaur) Whale, orca 1 (animal) 
 
13th Level or Higher (Level –12) 
Dire bear Elephant (animal) 
Octopus, giant1 (animal) 
 
16th Level or Higher (Level –15) 
Dire shark1 Triceratops (dinosaur) 
Dire tiger Tyrannosaurus (dinosaur) 
Squid, giant1 (animal) 
 
1 Available only in an aquatic environment. 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 