 
 42 
Wholeness of Body (Su): At 7th level or higher, a monk can heal 
her own wounds. She can heal a number of hit points of damage 
equal to twice her current monk level each day, and she can spread 
this healing out among several uses. 
Improved Evasion (Ex):  At 9th level, a monk’s evasion ability 
improves. She still takes no damage on a successful Reflex saving 
throw against attacks such as a dragon’s breath weapon or a fireball, 
but henceforth she takes only half damage on a failed save. A help-
less monk (such as one who is unconscious or paralysed) does not 
gain the benefit of improved evasion. 
Diamond Body (Su):  At 11th level, a monk is in such firm con-
trol of her own metabolism that she gains immunity to poisons of all 
kinds. 
Abundant Step (Su):  At 12th level or higher, a monk can slip 
magically between spaces, as if using the spell dimension door , once 
per day. Her caster level for this effect is one-half her monk level 
(rounded down). 
Diamond Soul (Ex):  At 13th level, a monk gains spell resistance 
equal to her current monk level + 10. In order to affect the monk 
with a spell, a spellcaster must get a result on a caster level check 
(1d20 + caster level; see Spell Resistance, page 177) that equals or 
exceeds the monk’s spell resistance. 
Quivering Palm (Su):  Starting at 15th level, a monk can set up 
vibrations within the body of another creature that can thereafter be 
fatal if the monk so desires. She can use this quivering palm attack 
once a week, and she must announce her intent before making her 
attack roll. Constructs, oozes, plants, undead, incorporeal creatures, 
and creatures immune to critical hits cannot be affected. Otherwise, 
if the monk strikes successfully and the target takes damage from 
the blow, the quivering palm attack succeeds. Thereafter the monk 
can try to slay the victim at any later time, as long as the attempt is 
made within a number of days equal to her monk level. To make 
such an attempt, the monk merely wills the target to die (a free 
action), and unless the target makes a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 
+ 1/2 the monk’s level + the monk’s Wis modifier), it dies. If the 
saving throw is successful, the target is no longer in danger from 
that particular quivering palm attack, but it may still be affected by 
another one at a later time. 
Timeless Body (Ex):  Upon attaining 17th level, a monk no 
longer takes penalties to her ability scores for aging and cannot be 
magically aged. Any such penalties that she has already taken, 
however, remain in place. Bonuses still accrue, and the monk still 
dies of old age when her time is up. 
Tongue of the Sun and Moon (Ex):  A monk of 17th level or 
higher can speak with any living creature. 
Empty Body (Su):  At 19th level, a monk gains the ability to 
assume an ethereal state for 1 round per monk level per day, as 
though using the spell etherealness. She may go ethereal on a number 
of different occasions during any single day, as long as the total 
number of rounds spent in an ethereal state does not exceed her 
monk level. 
Perfect Self: At 20th level, a monk has tuned her body with skill 
and quasi-magical abilities to the point that she becomes a magical 
creature. She is forevermore treated as an outsider (an extraplanar 
creature) rather than as a humanoid for the purpose of spells and 
magical effects. For instance, charm person  does not affect her. 
Additionally, the monk gains damage reduction 10/magic, which 
allows her to ignore the first 10 points of damage from any attack 
made by a nonmagical weapon or by any natural attack made by a 
creature that doesn’t have similar damage reduction (see Damage 
Reduction, page 291 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide ). Unlike other 
outsiders, the monk can still be brought back from the dead as if she 
were a member of her previous creature type. 
 
 
Ex-Monks 
A monk who becomes nonlawful cannot gain new levels as a monk 
but retains all monk abilities. 
Like a member of any other class, a monk may be a multiclass 
character, but multiclass monks face a special restriction. A monk 
who gains a new class or (if already multiclass) raises another class 
by a level may never again raise her monk level, though she retains 
all her monk abilities. 
 
Human Monk Starting Package 
Armor: None (speed 30 ft). 
Weapons: Quarterstaff (1d6/1d6, crit ×2, 4 lb., two-handed, 
bludgeoning). 
Sling (1d4, crit ×2, range inc. 50 ft., 0 lb., bludgeoning). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 5 + Int modifier. 
 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Listen 4 Wis — 
Climb 4 Str 0 
Move Silently 4 Dex 0 
Tumble 4 Dex 0 
Jump 4 Str 0 
Escape Artist 4 Dex 0 
Hide 4 Dex 0 
Swim 4 Str 0 
Balance 4 Dex 0  
 
Feat: If Dexterity is 13 or higher, Dodge; if Dexterity is 12 or 
lower, Improved Initiative instead. 
Bonus Feat: If Dexterity is 13 or higher, Mobility; if Dexterity is 
12 or lower, Blind-Fight instead. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Three torches. Pouch with 10 sling stones. 
Gold: 2d4 gp. 
 
PALADIN 
The compassion to pursue good, the will to uphold law, and the 
power to defeat evil—these are the three weapons of the paladin. 
Few have the purity and devotion that it takes to walk the paladin’s 
path, but those few are rewarded with the power to protect, to heal, 
and to smite. In a land of scheming wizards, unholy priests, 
bloodthirsty dragons, and infernal fiends, the paladin is the final 
hope that cannot be extinguished. 
Adventures: Paladins take their adventures seriously and have a 
penchant for referring to them as quests. Even a mundane mission 
is, in the heart of the paladin, a personal test—an opportunity to 
demonstrate bravery, to develop martial skills, to learn tactics, and to 
find ways to do good. Still, the paladin really comes into her own 
when leading a mighty campaign against evil, not when merely 
looting ruins. 
Characteristics: Divine power protects the paladin and gives her 
special powers. It wards off harm, protects her from disease, lets her 
heal herself, and guards her heart against fear. The paladin can also 
direct this power to help others, healing their wounds or curing 
diseases. Finally, the paladin can use this power to destroy evil. Even 
the least experienced paladin can detect evil, and more experienced 
paladins can smite evil foes and turn away undead. In addition, this 
power draws a mighty steed to the paladin and imbues that mount 
with strength, intelligence, and magical protection. 
Alignment: Paladins must be lawful good, and they lose their 
divine powers if they deviate from that alignment. Additionally, 
paladins swear to follow a code of conduct that is in line with law-
fulness and goodness. 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 