 
 47
often rangers as well, being adaptable enough to learn their way 
around the woods even if it doesn’t come naturally to them. Half-
orcs may find the life of a ranger more comfortable than life among 
cruel and taunting humans (or orcs). Gnome rangers are more 
common than gnome fighters, but still they tend to remain in their 
own lands rather than adventure among “the big people.” Dwarf 
rangers are rare, but they can be quite effective. Instead of living in 
the surface wilderness, they are at home in the endless caverns 
beneath the earth. Here they hunt down and destroy the enemies of 
dwarvenkind with the relentless precision for which dwarves are 
known. Dwarf rangers are often known as cavers. Halfling rangers 
are highly respected for their ability to help communities of 
halflings prosper as they pursue their nomadic lifestyle. 
Among the savage humanoids, only gnolls are commonly rangers, 
using their skills to slyly stalk their prey. 
Classes: Rangers get along well with druids and to some extent 
with barbarians. They are known to bicker with paladins, mostly 
because they often share goals but differ in style, tactics, approach, 
philosophy, and esthetics. Since rangers don’t often look to other 
people for support or friendship, they find it easy to tolerate people 
who are quite different from themselves, such as bookish wizards 
and preachy clerics. They just don’t care enough to get upset about 
others’ differences. 
Role: The ranger’s best role is that of a scout and secondary 
combatant. Without the heavy armor of the fighter or the staying 
power of the barbarian, the ranger should focus on opportunistic 
and ranged attacks. Most rangers user their animal companions as 
sentries, scouts, or to assist them in melee combat. 
 
GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Rangers have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Dexterity is important for a ranger both because he 
tends to wear light armor and because several ranger skills are based 
on that ability. Strength is important because rangers frequently get 
involved in combat. Several ranger skills are based on Wisdom, and 
a Wisdom score of 14 or higher is required to get access to the most 
powerful ranger spells. A Wisdom score of 11 or higher is required 
to cast any ranger spells at all. One of the ranger’s trademark skills, 
his ability to track foes, is based on Wisdom. 
Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d8. 
 
Class Skills 
The ranger’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Climb 
(Str), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Heal 
(Wis), Hide (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge (dungeoneering) (Int), 
Knowledge (geography) (Int), Knowledge (nature) (Int), Listen 
(Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Profession (Wis), Ride (Dex), Search 
(Int), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis), Swim (Str), and Use Rope (Dex). 
See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (6 + Int modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the ranger. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  A ranger is proficient with all 
simple and martial weapons, and with light armor and shields 
(except tower shields). 
Favored Enemy (Ex):  At 1st level, a ranger may select a type of 
creature from among those given on Table 3–14: Ranger Favored 
Enemies. Due to his extensive study on his chosen type of foe and 
training in the proper techniques for combating such creatures, the 
ranger gains a +2 bonus on Bluff, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot, and 
Survival checks when using these skills against creatures of this 
type. Likewise, he gets a +2 bonus on weapon damage rolls against 
such creatures. 
At 5th level and every five levels thereafter (10th, 15th, and 20th 
level), the ranger may select an additional favored enemy from those 
given on the table. In addition, at each such interval, the bonus 
against any one favored enemy (including the one just selected, if so 
desired) increases by 2. For example, a 5th-level ranger has two 
favored enemies; against one he gains a +4 bonus on Bluff, Listen, 
Sense Motive, Spot, and Survival checks and weapon damage rolls, 
and against the other he has a +2 bonus. At 10th level, he has three 
favored enemies, and he gains an additional +2 bonus, which he can 
allocate to the bonus against any one of his three favored enemies. 
Thus, his bonuses could be either +4, +4, +2 or +6, +2, +2. 
If the ranger chooses humanoids or outsiders as a favored enemy, 
he must also choose an associated subtype, as indicated on the table. 
If a specific creature falls into more than one category of favored 
enemy (for instance, devils are both evil outsiders and lawful 
outsiders), the ranger’s bonuses do not stack; he simply uses 
whichever bonus is higher. See the Monster Manual for more infor-
mation on types of creatures. 
 
Table 3–14: Ranger Favored Enemies 
Type (Subtype) Examples 
Aberration beholder 
Animal bear 
Construct golem 
Dragon  black dragon 
Elemental invisible stalker 
Fey dryad 
Giant ogre 
Humanoid (aquatic) merfolk 
Humanoid (dwarf) dwarf 
Humanoid (elf) elf 
Humanoid (goblinoid) hobgoblin 
Humanoid (gnoll) gnoll 
Humanoid (gnome) gnome 
Humanoid (halfling) halfling 
Humanoid (human) human 
Humanoid (orc) orc 
Humanoid (reptilian) kobold 
Magical beast displacer beast 
Monstrous humanoid minotaur 
Ooze gelatinous cube 
Outsider (air) arrowhawk 
Outsider (chaotic) demon 
Outsider (earth) xorn 
Outsider (evil) devil 
Outsider (fire) salamander 
Outsider (good) angel 
Outsider (lawful) formian 
Outsider (native) tiefling 
Outsider (water) tojanida 
Plant shambling mound 
Undead zombie 
Vermin monstrous spider 
 
Track: A ranger gains Track (see page 101) as a bonus feat. 
Wild Empathy (Ex):  A ranger can use body language, vocaliza-
tions, and demeanor to improve the attitude of an animal (such as a 
bear or a monitor lizard). This ability functions just like a Diplomacy 
check to improve the attitude of a person (see page 72). The ranger 
rolls 1d20 and adds his ranger level and his Charisma bonus to 
determine the wild empathy check result. The typical domestic 
animal has a starting attitude of indifferent, while wild animals are 
usually unfriendly. 
To use wild empathy, the ranger and the animal must be able to 
study each other, which means that they must be within 30 feet of 
one another under normal visibility conditions. Generally, 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 