 
 48 
influencing an animal in this way takes 1 minute, but, as with 
influencing people, it might take more or less time. 
The ranger can also use this ability to influence a magical beast 
with an Intelligence score of 1 or 2 (such as a basilisk or a girallon), 
but he takes a –4 penalty on the check. 
Combat Style (Ex): At 2nd level, a ranger must select one of two 
combat styles to pursue: archery or two-weapon combat. This choice 
affects the character’s class features but does not restrict his 
selection of feats or special abilities in any way. 
If the ranger selects archery, he is treated as having the Rapid 
Shot feat, even if he does not have the normal prerequisites for that 
feat. 
If the ranger selects two-weapon combat, he is treated as having 
the Two-Weapon Fighting feat, even if he does not have the normal 
prerequisites for that feat. 
The benefits of the ranger’s chosen style apply only when he 
wears light or no armor. He loses all benefits of his combat style 
when wearing medium or heavy armor. 
Endurance: A ranger gains Endurance (see page 93) as a bonus 
feat at 3rd level. 
Animal Companion (Ex):  At 4th level, a ranger gains an animal 
companion selected from the following list: badger, camel, dire rat, 
dog, riding dog, eagle, hawk, horse (light or heavy), owl, pony, snake 
(Small or Medium viper), or wolf. If the DM’s campaign takes place 
wholly or partly in an aquatic environment, the DM may add the 
following creatures to the ranger’s list of options: crocodile, 
porpoise, Medium shark, and squid. This animal is a loyal 
companion that accompanies the ranger on his adventures as 
appropriate for its kind. (For instance, an aquatic creature can’t 
adventure with a ranger on land and shouldn’t be selected by a 
nonaquatic character without extenuating circumstances). In most 
cases, the animal companion functions as a mount, sentry, scout, or 
hunting animal, rather than as a protector. 
This ability functions like the druid ability of the same name (see 
page 35), except that the ranger’s effective druid level is one-half his 
ranger level. For example, the animal companion of a 4th-level 
ranger would be the equivalent of a 2nd-level druid’s animal 
companion. A ranger may select from the alternative lists of animal 
companions just as a druid can, though again his effective druid 
level is half his ranger level. Thus, he must be at least an 8th-level 
ranger to select from the druid’s list of 4th-level animal companions, 
and if he chooses one of those animals, his effective druid level 
would be reduced by 3, to 1st level. Like a druid, a ranger cannot 
select an alternative animal if the choice would reduce his effective 
druid level below 1st. 
Spells: Beginning at 4th level, a ranger gains the ability to cast a 
small number of divine spells (the same type of spells available to 
the cleric, druid, and paladin), which are drawn from the ranger 
spell list (page 191). A ranger must choose and prepare his spells in 
advance (see below). 
To prepare or cast a spell, a ranger must have a Wisdom score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 11 for 1st-level spells, Wis 
12 for 2nd-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a saving 
throw against a ranger’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the ranger’s 
Wisdom modifier. 
Like other spellcasters, a ranger can cast only a certain number of 
spells of each spell level per day. His base daily spell allotment is 
given on Table 3–13: The Ranger. In addition, he receives bonus 
spells per day if he has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1–1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). When Table 3–13 indicates that 
the ranger gets 0 spells per day of a given spell level (for instance, 
1st-level spells for a 4th-level ranger), he gains only the bonus spells 
he would be entitled to based on his Wisdom score for that spell 
level. The ranger does not have access to any domain spells or 
granted powers, as a cleric does. 
A ranger prepares and casts spells the way a cleric does, though he 
cannot lose a prepared spell to cast a cure spell in its place. A ranger 
may prepare and cast any spell on the ranger spell list, provided that 
he can cast spells of that level, but he must choose which spells to 
prepare during his daily meditation. 
Through 3rd level, a ranger has no caster level. At 4th level and 
higher, his caster level is one-half his ranger level. 
Improved Combat Style (Ex): At 6th level, a ranger’s aptitude in 
his chosen combat style (archery or two-weapon combat) improves. 
If he selected archery at 2nd level, he is treated as having the 
Manyshot feat (page 97), even if he does not have the normal 
prerequisites for that feat. 
If the ranger selected two-weapon combat at 2nd level, he is 
treated as having the Improved Two-Weapon Fighting feat (page 
96), even if he does not have the normal prerequisites for that feat. 
As before, the benefits of the ranger’s chosen style apply only 
when he wears light or no armor. He loses all benefits of his combat 
style when wearing medium or heavy armor. 
Woodland Stride (Ex):  Starting at 7th level, a ranger may move 
through any sort of undergrowth (such as natural thorns, briars, 
overgrown areas, and similar terrain) at his normal speed and 
without taking damage or suffering any other impairment. 
However, thorns, briars, and overgrown areas that are enchanted or 
magically manipulated to impede motion still affect him. 
Swift Tracker (Ex):  Beginning at 8th level, a ranger can move at 
his normal speed while following tracks without taking the normal 
–5 penalty. He takes only a –10 penalty (instead of the normal –20) 
when moving at up to twice normal speed while tracking. 
Evasion (Ex):  At 9th level, a ranger can avoid even magical and 
unusual attacks with great agility. If he makes a successful Reflex 
saving throw against an attack that normally deals half damage on a 
successful save (such as a red dragon’s fiery breath or a fireball), he 
instead takes no damage. Evasion can be used only if the ranger is 
wearing light armor or no armor. A helpless ranger (such as one who 
is unconscious or paralysed) does not gain the benefit of evasion. 
Combat Style Mastery (Ex):  At 11th level, a ranger’s aptitude in 
his chosen combat style (archery or two-weapon combat) improves 
again. If he selected archery at 2nd level, he is treated as having the 
Improved Precise Shot feat (page 96), even if he does not have the 
normal prerequisites for that feat. 
If the ranger selected two-weapon combat at 2nd level, he is 
treated as having the Greater Two-Weapon Fighting feat (page 95), 
even if he does not have the normal prerequisites for that feat. 
As before, the benefits of the ranger’s chosen style apply only 
when he wears light or no armor. He loses all benefits of his combat 
style when wearing medium or heavy armor. 
Camouflage (Ex):  A ranger of 13th level or higher can use the 
Hide skill in any sort of natural terrain, even if the terrain doesn’t 
grant cover or concealment. 
Hide in Plain Sight (Ex):  While in any sort of natural terrain, a 
ranger of 17th level or higher can use the Hide skill even while 
being observed. 
 
Elf Ranger Starting Package 
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC, armor check penalty –1, speed 
30 ft., 20 lb.). 
Weapons: Longsword (1d8, crit 19–20/×2, 4 lb., one-handed, 
slashing). 
Short sword, off hand (1d6, crit 19–20/×2, 2 lb., light, piercing). 
Note: When striking with both swords, the ranger takes a –4 
penalty with his longsword and a –8 penalty with his short sword. If 
he has a Strength bonus, add only one-half of it to his damage roll 
with the short sword, which is in his off hand, but add the full 
Strength bonus to his damage roll with the longsword. 
Longbow (1d8, crit ×3, range inc. 100 ft., 3 lb., piercing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 6 + Int modifier. 
 
 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 