 
 53
Since sorcerers gain their powers without undergoing the years of 
rigorous study that wizards go through, they don’t have the 
background of arcane knowledge than most wizards have. However, 
they do have more time to learn fighting skills, and they are 
proficient with simple weapons. 
Alignment: For a sorcerer, magic is an intuitive art, not a science. 
Sorcery favors the free, chaotic, creative spirit over the disciplined 
mind, so sorcerers tend slightly toward chaos over law. 
Religion: Some sorcerers favor Boccob (god of magic), while 
others revere Wee Jas (goddess of death and magic). However, many 
sorcerers follow some other deity, or none at all. (Wizards typically 
learn to follow Boccob or Wee Jas from their mentors, but most 
sorcerers are self-taught, with no master to induct them into a 
religion). 
Background: Sorcerers develop rudimentary powers at puberty. 
Their first spells are incomplete, spontaneous, uncontrolled, and 
sometimes dangerous. A household with a budding sorcerer in it 
may be troubled by strange sounds or lights, which can create the 
impression that the place is haunted. Eventually, the young sorcerer 
understands the power that he has been wielding unintentionally. 
From that point on, he can begin practicing and improving his 
powers. 
Sometimes a sorcerer is fortunate enough to come under the care 
of an older, more experienced sorcerer, someone who can help him 
understand and use his new powers. More often, however, sorcerers 
are on their own, feared by erstwhile friends and misunderstood by 
family. 
Sorcerers have no sense of identity as a group. Unlike wizards, 
they gain little by sharing their knowledge and have no strong 
incentive to work together. 
Races: Most sorcerers are humans or half-elves, but the innate 
talent for sorcery is unpredictable, and it can show up in any of the 
common races. 
Arcane spellcasters from savage lands or from among the brutal 
humanoids are more likely to be sorcerers than wizards. Kobolds are 
especially likely to take up this path, and they are fierce, if inar-
ticulate, proponents of the “blood of the dragons” theory. 
Other Classes:  Sorcerers find that they have the most in 
common with members of other largely self-taught classes, such as 
druids and rogues. They sometimes find themselves at odds with 
members of the more disciplined classes, such as paladins and 
monks. Since they cast the same spells as wizards but do so in a 
different way, they sometimes find themselves in competition with 
wizards. 
Role: A sorcerer tends to define his role based on his spell 
selection. A sorcerer who focuses on damage-dealing spells becomes 
a center of the party’s offensive power. Another may rely on more 
subtle magics, such as charms and illusions, and thus take a quieter 
role. A party with a sorcerer should strongly consider including a 
second spellcaster, such as a bard, cleric, druid, or even a wizard, to 
make up for the sorcerer’s lack of versatility. Since a sorcerer often 
has a powerful presence that gives him a way with people, he may 
serve as the “face” for an adventuring party, negotiating, bargaining, 
and speaking for others. The sorcerer’s spells often help him sway 
others or gain information, so he makes an excellent spy or diplomat 
for an adventuring party. 
Int: The familiar’s Intelligence score. Familiars are as smart as people,
though not necessarily as smart as smart people. 
Alertness (Ex):  The presence of the familiar sharpens its master’s
senses. While a familiar is within arm’s reach, the master gains the
Alertness feat (page 89). 
Improved Evasion (Ex):  When sub jected to an attack that normally
allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, a familiar takes no damage
if it makes a successful saving throw and half damage even if the saving
throw fails. 
Share Spells: At the master’s option, he may have any spell (but not
any spell-like ability) he casts on himself also affect his familiar. The
familiar must be within 5 feet at the time of casting to receive the benefit.
If the spell or effect has a duration other than instantaneous, it stops
affecting the familiar if it moves farther than 5 feet away and will not
affect the familiar again even if it returns to the master before the
duration expires. Additionally, the master may cast a spell with a target o
f
“You” on his familiar (as a touch range spell) instead of on himself. A
master and his familiar can share spells even if the spells normally do
not affect creatures of the familiar’s type (magical beast). 
Empathic Link (Su): The master has an empathic link with his familiar
out to a distance of up to 1 mile. The master cannot see through the
familiar’s eyes, but they can communicate empathically. Because of the
limited nature of the link, only general emotional content (such as fear,
hunger, happiness, curiosity) can be communicated. Note that the low
Intelligence of a low-level master’s familiar limits what the creature is
able to communicate or understand, and even intelligent familiars see
the world differently from humans, so misunderstandings are always
possible. 
Because of this empathic link, the master has the same connection to
an item or place that his familiar does. For instance, if his familiar has 
seen a room, the master can teleport into that room as if he has seen it
too. 
Deliver Touch Spells (Su): If the master is 3rd level or higher, a familiar
can deliver touch spells for him. If the master and the familiar are in
contact at the time the master casts a touch spell, he can designate his
familiar as the “toucher.” The familiar can then deliver the touch spell
just as the master could. As usual, if the master casts another spell 
before the touch is delivered, the touch spell dissipates. 
Speak with Master (Ex): If the master is 5th level or higher, a familiar 
and the master can communicate verbally as if they were using a 
common language. Other creatures do not understand the communi-
cation without magical help. 
Speak with Animals of Its Kind (Ex): If the master is 7th level or higher, 
a familiar can communicate with animals of approximately the same kind 
as itself (including dire varieties): bats with bats, rats with rodents, cats 
with felines, hawks and owls and ravens with birds, lizards and snakes 
with reptiles, toads with amphibians, weasels with similar creatures 
(weasels, minks, polecats, ermines, skunks, wolverines, and badgers). 
Such communication is limited by the intelligence of the conversing 
creatures. 
Spell Resistance (Ex):  If the master is 11th level or higher, a familiar 
gains spell resistance equal to the master’s level + 5. To affect the 
familiar with a spell, another spellcaster must get a result on a caster 
level check (1d20 + caster level; see Spell Resistance, page 177) that 
equals or exceeds the familiar’s spell resistance. 
Scry on Familiar (Sp): If the master is 13th level or higher, he may scry 
on his familiar (as if casting the scrying spell) once per day. 
 
Master Natural 
Class Level Armor Adj. Int Special  
1st–2nd  +1  6  Alertness, improved evasion, 
   share spells, empathic link 
3rd–4th  +2  7  Deliver touch spells 
5th–6th  +3  8  Speak with master 
7th–8th  +4  9  Speak with animals of its kind 
9th–10th  +5  10  — 
11th–12th  +6  11  Spell resistance 
13th–14th  +7  12  Scry on familiar 
15th–16th  +8  13  — 
17th–18th  +9  14  — 
19th–20th  +10  15  — 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 