 
 65
For example, Gimble the bard wants to entertain a band of 
dwarves who are staying at the same inn where he and his party are 
staying. Before playing his lute, Gimble listens to the dwarves’ 
drinking songs so he can judge their mood. Doing so improves his 
performance, giving him a +2 circumstance bonus on his check. His 
player rolls a 5 and adds +9 for his skill modifier (4 ranks, +3 
Charisma modifier, and +2 for his impromptu research). His result is 
14. The DM sets the DC at 15. However, the dwarves are in a good 
mood because they have recently won a skirmish with orc bandits, 
so the DM reduces the DC to 13. (Gimble’s performance isn’t better 
just because the dwarves are in a good mood, so Gimble doesn’t get a 
bonus to add into his skill modifier. Instead, the DC goes down.) 
The leader of the dwarven band, however, has heard that a gnome 
spy works for the bandits, and he’s suspicious of Gimble. The DC to 
entertain him is higher than normal: 17 instead of 15. Gimble’s skill 
check result (14) is high enough to entertain the dwarves (DC 13) 
but not their leader (DC 17). The dwarves applaud Gimble and offer 
to buy him drinks, but their leader eyes him suspiciously. 
 
Time and Skill Checks 
Using a skill might take a round, take no time, or take several 
rounds or even longer. Most skill uses are standard actions, move 
actions, or full-round actions. Types of actions define how long 
activities take to perform within the framework of a combat round 
(6 seconds) and how movement is treated with respect to the activity 
(see Action Types, page 138). Some skill checks are instant and 
represent reactions to an event, or are included as part of an action. 
These skill checks are not actions. Other skill checks represent part 
of movement. The distance you jump when making a Jump check, 
for example, is part of your movement. Each skill description 
specifies the time required to make a check. 
 
Practically Impossible Tasks 
Sometimes you want to do something that seems practically 
impossible. In general, a task considered practically impossible has a 
DC of 40, 60, or even higher (or it carries a modifier of +20 or more 
to the DC). 
Practically impossible tasks are hard to delineate ahead of time. 
They’re the accomplishments that represent incredible, almost 
logic-defying skill and luck. Picking a lock by giving it a single, swift 
kick might entail a +20 modifier to the DC; swimming up a waterfall 
could require a Swim check against DC 80; and balancing on a 
fragile tree branch might have a DC of 90. 
The DM decides what is actually impossible and what is merely 
practically impossible. Characters with very high skill modifiers are 
capable of accomplishing incredible, almost unbelievable tasks, just 
as characters with very high combat bonuses are. 
 
Checks without Rolls 
A skill check represents an attempt to accomplish some goal, usually 
while under some sort of time pressure or distraction. Sometimes, 
though, a character can use a skill under more favorable conditions 
and eliminate the luck factor. 
Taking 10:  When your character is not being threatened or dis-
tracted, you may choose to take 10. Instead of rolling 1d20 for the 
skill check, calculate your result as if you had rolled a 10. For many 
routine tasks, taking 10 makes them automatically successful. Dis-
tractions or threats (such as combat) make it impossible for a 
character to take 10. In most cases, taking 10 is purely a safety 
measure —you know (or expect) that an average roll will succeed 
but fear that a poor roll might fail, so you elect to settle for the 
average roll (a 10). Taking 10 is especially useful in situations where 
a particularly high roll wouldn’t help (such as using Climb to ascend 
a knotted rope, or using Heal to give a wounded PC long-term care). 
For example, Krusk the barbarian has a Climb skill modifier of +6 
(4 ranks, +3 Strength modifier, –1 penalty for wearing studded 
leather armor). The steep, rocky slope he’s climbing has a Climb DC 
of 10. With a little care, he can take 10 and succeed automatically. 
But partway up the slope, a goblin scout begins pelting him with 
sling stones. Krusk needs to make a Climb check to get up to the 
goblin, and this time he can’t simply take 10. If his player rolls 4 or 
higher on 1d20, he succeeds. 
Taking 20:  When you have plenty of time (generally 2 minutes 
for a skill that can normally be checked in 1 round, one full-round 
action, or one standard action), you are faced with no threats or 
distractions, and the skill being attempted carries no penalties for 
failure, you can take 20. In other words, eventually you will get a 20 
on 1d20 if you roll enough times. Instead of rolling 1d20 for the skill 
check, just calculate your result as if you had rolled a 20. Taking 20 
means you are trying until you get it right, and it assumes that you 
fail many times before succeeding. Taking 20 takes twenty times as 
long as making a single check would take. Since taking 20 assumes 
that the character will fail many times before succeeding, if you did 
attempt to take 20 on a skill that carries penalties for failure (for 
instance, a Disable Device check to disarm a trap), your character 
would automatically incur those penalties before he or she could 
complete the task (in this case, the character would most likely set 
off the trap). Common “take 20” skills include Escape Artist, Open 
Lock, and Search. 
For example, Krusk comes to a cliff face. He attempts to take 10, 
for a result of 16 (10 plus his +6 skill modifier), but the DC is 20, and 
the DM tells him that he fails to make progress up the cliff. (His 
check is at least high enough that he does not fall.) Krusk cannot 
take 20 because there is a penalty associated with failure (falling, in 
this case). He can try over and over, and eventually he may succeed, 
but he might fall one or more times in the process. Later, Krusk 
finds a cave in the cliff and searches it. The DM sees in the Search 
skill description that each 5-foot-square area takes a full-round 
action to search, and she secretly assigns a DC of 15 to the attempt. 
She estimates that the floors, walls, and ceiling of the cave make up 
about ten 5-foot squares, so she tells Krusk’s player that it takes 1 
minute (10 rounds) to search the whole cave. Krusk’s player gets a 
result of 12 on 1d20, adds no skill ranks because Krusk doesn’t have 
the Search skill, and adds –1 because that is Krusk’s Intelligence 
modifier. His roll fails. Now the player declares that Krusk is going 
to search the cavern high and low, taking as long as it takes. The DM 
takes the original time of 1 minutes and multiplies it by 20, for 20 
minutes. That’s how long it takes for Krusk to search the whole cave 
in exacting detail. Now Krusk’s player treats his roll as if it were 20, 
for a result of 19. That’s good enough to beat the DC of 15, and 
Krusk finds an old, bronze key discarded under a loose rock. 
Ability Checks and Caster Level Checks:  The normal take 10 
and take 20 rules apply for ability checks. Neither rule applies to 
caster level checks (such as when casting dispel magic or attempting 
to overcome spell resistance). 
 
COMBINING SKILL ATTEMPTS 
When more than one character tries the same skill at the same time 
and for the same purpose, their efforts may overlap. 
 
Individual Events 
Often, several characters attempt some action and each succeeds or 
fails independently. 
For example, Krusk and each of his friends needs to climb a slope 
if they’re all to get to the top. Regardless of Krusk’s roll, the other 
characters need successful checks, too. Every character makes a skill 
check. 
 
Aid Another 
You can help another character achieve success on his or her skill 
check by making the same kind of skill check in a cooperative effort. 
If you roll a 10 or higher on your check, the character you are 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 