 
 78 
KNOWLEDGE (INT; TRAINED ONLY) 
Like the Craft and Profession skills, Knowledge actually encom-
passes a number of unrelated skills. Knowledge represents a study of 
some body of lore, possibly an academic or even scientific discipline. 
Below are listed typical fields of study. With your DM’s approval, 
you can invent new areas of knowledge. 
/rhombus4 Arcana (ancient mysteries, magic traditions, arcane symbols, 
cryptic phrases, constructs, dragons, magical beasts) 
/rhombus4 Architecture and engineering (buildings, aqueducts, bridges, 
fortifications) 
/rhombus4 Dungeoneering (aberrations, caverns, oozes, spelunking) 
/rhombus4 Geography (lands, terrain, climate, people) 
/rhombus4 History (royalty, wars, colonies, migrations, founding of cities) 
/rhombus4 Local (legends, personalities, inhabitants, laws, customs, tradi-
tions, humanoids) 
/rhombus4 Nature (animals, fey, giants, monstrous humanoids, plants, 
seasons and cycles, weather, vermin) 
/rhombus4 Nobility and royalty (lineages, heraldry, family trees, mottoes, 
personalities) 
/rhombus4 Religion (gods and goddesses, mythic history, ecclesiastic tradi-
tion, holy symbols, undead) 
/rhombus4 The planes (the Inner Planes, the Outer Planes, the Astral Plane, 
the Ethereal Plane, outsiders, elementals, magic related to the 
planes) 
Check: Answering a question within your field of study has a DC 
of 10 (for really easy questions), 15 (for basic questions), or 20 to 30 
(for really tough questions). 
In many cases, you can use this skill to identify monsters and 
their special powers or vulnerabilities. In general, the DC of such a 
check equals 10 + the monster’s HD. A successful check allows you 
to remember a bit of useful information about that monster. For 
every 5 points by which your check result exceeds the DC, you 
recall another piece of useful information. 
Action: Usually none. In most cases, making a Knowledge check 
doesn’t take an action—you simply know the answer or you don’t. 
Try Again:  No. The check represents what you know, and 
thinking about a topic a second time doesn’t let you know 
something that you never learned in the first place. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (arcana), you 
get a +2 bonus on Spellcraft checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (architecture and 
engineering), you get a +2 bonus on Search checks made to find 
secret doors or hidden compartments. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (geography), you get a 
+2 bonus on Survival checks made to keep from getting lost or to 
avoid natural hazards. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (history), you get a +2 
bonus on bardic knowledge checks (see page 28). 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (local), you get a +2 
bonus on Gather Information checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (nature), you get a +2 
bonus on Survival checks made in aboveground natural environ-
ments (aquatic, desert, forest, hill, marsh, mountains, or plains). 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (nobility and royalty), 
you get a +2 bonus on Diplomacy checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (religion), you get a +2 
bonus on turning checks against undead (see page 159). 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (the planes), you get a 
+2 bonus on Survival checks made while on other planes. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (dungeoneering), you 
get a +2 bonus on Survival checks made while underground. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Survival, you get a +2 bonus on 
Knowledge (nature) checks. 
Untrained: An untrained Knowledge check is simply an Intel-
ligence check. Without actual training, you know only common 
knowledge (DC 10 or lower). 
 
LISTEN (WIS) 
Use this skill to hear approaching enemies, to detect someone 
sneaking up on you from behind, or to eavesdrop on someone else’s 
conversation. 
Check: Your Listen check is either made against a DC that 
reflects how quiet the noise is that you might hear, or it is opposed 
by your target’s Move Silently check. 
Your DM may decide to make the Listen check for you, so that 
you don’t know whether not hearing anything means that nothing 
is there, or that you failed the check. 
 
Listen DC Sound 
–10 A battle 
 0 People talking 1 
 5 A person in medium armor walking at a slow pace 
  (10 ft./round) trying not to make any noise. 
 10 An unarmored person walking at a slow pace 
  (15 ft./round) trying not to make any noise 
 15 A 1st-level rogue using Move Silently to sneak past the 
  listener 
 15 People whispering 1 
 19 A cat stalking 
 30 An owl gliding in for a kill 
1 If you beat the DC by 10 or more, you can make out what’s being said, 
assuming that you understand the language. 
 
Listen DC Modifier Condition 
 +5 Through a door 
 +15 Through a stone wall 
 –1 Per 10 feet of distance 
 –5 Listener distracted
 
 
In the case of people trying to be quiet, the DCs given on the table 
could be replaced by Move Silently checks, in which case the 
PLAYER KNOWLEDGE VERSUS 
CHARACTER KNOWLEDGE 
It’s pretty simple to measure a character’s knowledge of things the player
doesn’t know. That’s what a Knowledge skill check represents—for 
instance, the player of a character with many ranks in Knowledge
(geography) isn’t required to memorize all the geographic data about the
campaign world to use his character’s skill ranks. 
The opposite case, however, is harder to ad judicate cleanly. What
happens when a player knows something that his or her character does
not have any reason to know? For instance, while most veteran players
know that black dragons breathe acid, it’s entirely likely that most
inexperienced characters don’t know that fact. 
Generally speaking, it’s impossible to separate completely your 
personal knowledge (also called player knowledge) from your character’s 
knowledge. Ultimately, the decision on how (or if) to divide player 
knowledge from character knowledge must be made between the players 
and the DM. Some DMs encourage knowledgeable players to use their 
experience to help their characters succeed. Others prefer that characters 
display only the knowledge represented by their skill ranks and other
game statistics. Most fall somewhere between those two extremes. 
I f  i n  d o u b t ,  a s k  y o u r  D M  h o w  h e  o r  s h e  p r e f e r s  t o  h a n d l e  s u c h  
situations. The Dungeon Master’s Guide  has more information on this 
topic. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 