 
 82 
an object than to hide it. A dagger is easier to hide than most light 
weapons, and grants you a +2 bonus on your Sleight of Hand check 
to conceal it. An extraordinarily small object, such as a coin, 
shuriken, or ring, grants you a +4 bonus on your Sleight of Hand 
check to conceal it, and heavy or baggy clothing (such as a cloak) 
grants you a +2 bonus on the check. Drawing a hidden weapon is a 
standard action and doesn’t provoke an attack of opportunity. 
If you try to take something from another creature, you must 
make a DC 20 Sleight of Hand check to obtain it. The opponent 
makes a Spot check to detect the attempt, opposed by the same 
Sleight of Hand check result you achieved when you tried to grab 
the item. An opponent who succeeds on this check notices the 
attempt, regardless of whether you got the item. 
You can also use Sleight of Hand to entertain an audience as 
though you were using the Perform skill. In such a case, your “act” 
encompasses elements of legerdemain, juggling, and the like. 
 
 Sleight of Hand 
 DC  Task 
 10 Palm a coin-sized object, make a coin disappear 
 20 Lift a small object from a person
 
 
Action: Any Sleight of Hand check normally is a standard action. 
However, you may perform a Sleight of Hand check as a free action 
by taking a –20 penalty on the check. 
Try Again:  Yes, but after an initial failure, a second Sleight of 
Hand attempt against the same target (or while you are being 
watched by the same observer who noticed your previous attempt) 
increases the DC for the task by 10. 
Special: If you have the Deft Hands feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Sleight of Hand checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2 bonus 
on Sleight of Hand checks. 
Untrained: An untrained Sleight of Hand check is simply a 
Dexterity check. Without actual training, you can’t succeed on any 
Sleight of Hand check with a DC higher than 10, except for hiding 
an object on your body. 
 
SPEAK LANGUAGE (NONE; TRAINED ONLY) 
Language Typical Speakers Alphabet 
Abyssal Demons, chaotic evil outsiders Infernal 
Aquan Water-based creatures Elven 
Auran Air-based creatures Draconic 
Celestial Good outsiders Celestial 
Common Humans, halflings, half-elves, half-orcs Common 
Draconic Kobolds, troglodytes, lizardfolk, Draconic 
 dragons 
Druidic Druids (only) Druidic 
Dwarven Dwarves Dwarven 
Elven Elves Elven 
Giant Ogres, giants Dwarven 
Gnome Gnomes Dwarven 
Goblin Goblins, hobgoblins, bugbears Dwarven 
Gnoll Gnolls Common 
Halfling Halflings Common 
Ignan Fire-based creatures Draconic 
Infernal Devils, lawful evil outsiders Infernal 
Orc Orcs Dwarven 
Sylvan Dryads, brownies, leprechauns Elven 
Terran Xorns and other earth-based Dwarven 
 creatures 
Undercommon Drow Elven
 
 
Common languages and their alphabets are summarized on the table 
above. 
 
Action: Not applicable. 
Try Again: Not applicable. There are no Speak Language checks 
to fail. 
 
The Speak Language skill doesn’t work like other skills. Languages 
work as follows. 
/rhombus4 You start at 1st level knowing one or two languages (based on 
your race), plus an additional number of languages equal to your 
starting Intelligence bonus (see Chapter 2: Races). 
/rhombus4 You can purchase Speak Language just like any other skill, but 
instead of buying a rank in it, you choose a new language that you 
can speak. 
/rhombus4 You don’t make Speak Language checks. You either know a 
language or you don’t. 
/rhombus4 A literate character (anyone but a barbarian who has not spent 
skill points to become literate) can read and write any language 
she speaks. Each language has an alphabet, though sometimes 
several spoken languages share a single alphabet. 
 
SPELLCRAFT (INT; TRAINED ONLY) 
Use this skill to identify spells as they are cast or spells already in 
place. 
 
Spellcraft DC Task 
13  When using read magic, identify a glyph of warding. 
 No action required. 
15 + spell level  Identify a spell being cast. (You must see or hear 
 the spell’s verbal or somatic components.) No 
 action required. No retry.  
15 + spell level  Learn a spell from a spellbook or scroll (wizard 
 only). No retry for that spell until you gain at least 
 1 rank in Spellcraft (even if you find another 
 source to try to learn the spell from). Requires 
 8 hours. 
15 + spell level  Prepare a spell from a borrowed spellbook (wizard 
 only). One try per day. No extra time required.  
15 + spell level  When casting detect magic, determine the school 
 of magic involved in the aura of a single item or 
 creature you can see. (If the aura is not a spell 
 effect, the DC is 15 + one-half caster level.) No 
 action required. 
19  When using read magic, identify a symbol. No 
 action required. 
20 + spell level  Identify a spell that’s already in place and in effect. 
 You must be able to see or detect the effects of the 
 spell. No action required. No retry. 
20 + spell level  Identify materials created or shaped by magic, 
 such as noting that an iron wall is the result of a 
 wall of iron spell. No action required. No retry. 
20 + spell level  Decipher a written spell (such as a scroll) without 
 using read magic. One try per day. Requires a full- 
 round action. 
25 + spell level  After rolling a saving throw against a spell targeted 
 on you, determine what that spell was. No action 
 required. No retry. 
25  Identify a potion. Requires 1 minute. No retry. 
20  Draw a diagram to allow dimensional anchor to be 
 cast on a magic circle spell. Requires 10 minutes. 
 No retry. The DM makes this check. 
30 or higher  Understand a strange or unique magical effect, 
 such as the effects of a magic stream. Time 
 required varies. No retry.  
 
Check: You can identify spells and magic effects. The DCs for 
Spellcraft checks relating to various tasks are summarized on the 
table above. 
 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 