 
 86 
Emulate a Class Feature:  Sometimes you need to use a class feature 
to activate a magic item. In this case, your effective level in the 
emulated class equals your Use Magic Device check result minus 20.  
For example, Lidda finds a magic chalice that turns regular water 
into holy water when a cleric or an experienced paladin channels 
positive energy into it as if turning undead. She attempts to activate 
the item by emulating the cleric’s undead turning ability. Her 
effective cleric level is her check result minus 20. Since a cleric can 
turn undead at 1st level, she needs a Use Magic Device check result 
of 21 or higher to succeed. 
This skill does not let you actually use the class feature of another 
class. It just lets you activate items as if you had that class feature. 
If the class whose feature you are emulating has an alignment 
requirement, you must meet it, either honestly or by emulating an 
appropriate alignment with a separate Use Magic Device check (see 
above). 
Emulate a Race:  Some magic items work only for members of 
certain races, or work better for members of those races. You can use 
such an item as if you were a race of your choice. For example, 
Lidda, a halfling, could attempt to use a dwarven thrower  (see page 
226 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide) as if she were a dwarf. If she failed 
her Use Magic Device check, the hammer would work for her as it 
normally would for a halfling, but if she succeeded, it would work 
for her as if she were a dwarf. You can emulate only one race at a 
time. 
Use a Scroll:  If you are casting a spell from a scroll, you have to 
decipher it first. Normally, to cast a spell from a scroll, you must 
have the scroll’s spell on your class spell list. Use Magic Device 
allows you to use a scroll as if you had a particular spell on your class 
spell list. The DC is equal to 20 + the caster level of the spell you are 
trying to cast from the scroll. For instance, to cast web (a 2nd-level 
wizard spell) from a scroll, you would need a Use Magic Device 
check result of 23 or better, since the minimum caster level for web 
is 3rd level. See the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for more information on 
scrolls. 
In addition, casting a spell from a scroll requires a 
minimum score (10 + spell level) in the appropriate 
ability. If you don’t have a sufficient score in 
that ability, you must emulate the 
ability score with a separate Use Magic 
Device check (see above). 
This use of the skill also applies to other 
spell completion magic items. The 
Dungeon Master’s Guide  has more 
information on such items. 
Use a Wand: Normally, to use a wand, you must have 
the wand’s spell on your class spell list. This use of 
the skill allows you to use a wand as if you had a 
particular spell on your class spell list. 
This use of the skill also applies to other spell 
trigger magic items, such as staffs. The Dungeon 
Master’s Guide has more information on such 
items. 
Action: None. The Use Magic Device 
check is made as part of the action (if 
any) required to activate the magic 
item. (See Activate Magic Item, 
page 142, and the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for discussions of how 
magic items are normally activated.) 
Try Again: Yes, but if you ever roll a natural 1 while attempting to 
activate an item and you fail, then you can’t try to activate that item 
again for 24 hours. 
Special: You cannot take 10 with this skill. 
You can’t aid another on Use Magic Device checks. Only the user 
of the item may attempt such a check. 
If you have the Magical Aptitude feat, you get a +2 bonus on Use 
Magic Device checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Spellcraft, you get a +2 
bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Decipher Script, you get a +2 
bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Magic Device, you get a +2 
bonus to Spellcraft checks made to decipher spells on scrolls. 
 
USE ROPE (DEX) 
With this skill, you can make firm knots, undo tricky knots, and 
bind prisoners with ropes. 
Check: Most tasks with a rope are relatively simple. The DCs for 
various tasks utilizing this skill are summarized on the table below. 
 
Use Rope DC Task 
 10 Tie a firm knot 
 10 1 Secure a grappling hook 
 15 Tie a special knot, such as one that slips, slides 
  slowly, or loosens with a tug 
 15 Tie a rope around yourself one-handed 
 15 Splice two ropes together 
 Varies Bind a character 
1 Add 2 to the DC for every 10 feet the hook is thrown; see below.  
 
Secure a Grappling Hook:  Securing a grappling hook requires a Use 
Rope check (DC 10, +2 for every 10 feet of distance the grappling 
hook is thrown, to a maximum DC of 20 at 50 feet). Failure by 4 or 
less indicates that the hook fails to catch and falls, allowing you to 
try again. Failure by 5 or more indicates that the grappling hook 
initially holds, but comes loose after 1d4 rounds of supporting 
weight. Your DM should make this check secretly, so that you don’t 
know whether the rope will hold your weight. 
Bind a Character:  When you bind another character with a rope, 
any Escape Artist check that the bound 
character makes is opposed by your Use 
Rope check. You get a +10 bonus on this 
check because it is easier to bind 
someone than to escape from bonds. 
You don’t even make your Use Rope 
check until someone tries to escape. 
Action: Varies. Throwing a grappling 
hook is a standard action that provokes an 
attack of opportunity. Tying a knot, tying a 
special knot, or tying a rope around 
yourself one-handed is a full-round 
action that provokes an attack of 
opportunity. Splicing two ropes together 
takes 5 minutes. Binding a character takes 1 
minute. 
Special: A silk rope (page 127) gives you a +2 cir-
cumstance bonus on Use Rope checks. If you cast 
an animate rope  spell on a rope, you get a +2 
circumstance bonus on any Use Rope checks 
you make when using that rope. These 
bonuses stack. 
If you have the Deft Hands feat, you get a +2 bonus 
on Use Rope checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a +2 
bonus on Climb checks made to climb a rope, a knotted rope, or a 
rope-and-wall combination. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a +2 bonus on 
Escape Artist checks when escaping from rope bonds. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Escape Artist, you get a +2 bonus 
on checks made to bind someone. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 