 
 92 
CLEAVE [GENERAL] 
You can follow through with powerful blows. 
Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 
Benefit: I f  y o u  d e a l  a  c r e a t u r e  e n o u g h  d a m a g e  t o  m a k e  i t  d r o p  
(typically by dropping it to below 0 hit points or killing it), you get 
an immediate, extra melee attack against another creature within 
reach. You cannot take a 5-foot step before making this extra attack. 
The extra attack is with the same weapon and at the same bonus as 
the attack that dropped the previous creature. You can use this 
ability once per round. 
Special: A fighter may select Cleave as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
COMBAT CASTING [GENERAL] 
You are adept at casting spells in combat. 
Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on Concentration checks made to 
cast a spell or use a spell-like ability while on the defensive (see 
Casting on the Defensive, page 140) or while you are grappling or 
pinned. 
 
COMBAT EXPERTISE [GENERAL] 
You are trained at using your combat skill for defense as well as 
offense. 
Prerequisite: Int 13. 
Benefit: When you use the attack action or the full attack action 
in melee, you can take a penalty of as much as –5 on your attack roll 
and add the same number (+5 or less) as a dodge bonus to your 
Armor Class. This number may not exceed your base attack bonus. 
The changes to attack rolls and Armor Class last until your next 
action. 
Normal: A character without the Combat Expertise feat can fight 
defensively while using the attack or full attack action to take a –4 
penalty on attack rolls and gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class. 
Special: A fighter may select Combat Expertise as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
COMBAT REFLEXES [GENERAL] 
You can respond quickly and repeatedly to opponents who let their 
defenses down. 
Benefit: When foes leave themselves open, you may make a 
number of additional attacks of opportunity equal to your Dexterity 
bonus. For example, a fighter with a Dexterity of 15 can make a total 
of three attacks of opportunity in 1 round—the one attack of 
opportunity any character is entitled to, plus two more because of 
his +2 Dexterity bonus. If four goblins move out of the character’s 
threatened squares, he can make one attack of opportunity each 
against three of the four. You can still make only one attack of 
opportunity per opportunity. 
With this feat, you may also make attacks of opportunity while 
flat-footed. 
Normal: A character without this feat can make only one attack 
of opportunity per round and can’t make attacks of opportunity 
while flat-footed. 
Special: The Combat Reflexes feat does not allow a rogue to use 
her opportunist ability (see page 51) more than once per round. 
A fighter may select Combat Reflexes as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38) 
A monk may select Combat Reflexes as a bonus feat at 2nd level. 
 
CRAFT MAGIC ARMS AND ARMOR 
[ITEM CREATION] 
You can create magic weapons, armor, and shields. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 5th. 
Benefit: You can create any magic weapon, armor, or shield 
whose prerequisites you meet (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for 
prerequisites and other information on these items). Enhancing a 
weapon, suit of armor, or shield takes one day for each 1,000 gp in 
the price of its magical features. To enhance a weapon, suit of armor, 
or shield, you must spend 1/25 of its features’ total price in XP and 
use up raw materials costing one-half of this total price. 
The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a mas-
terwork item that you provide. Its cost is not included in the above 
cost. 
You can also mend a broken magic weapon, suit of armor, or 
shield if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, 
half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to craft that 
item in the first place. 
 
CRAFT ROD [ITEM CREATION] 
You can create magic rods, which have varied magical effects. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 9th. 
Benefit: You can create any rod whose prerequisites you meet 
(see the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for prerequisites and other infor-
mation on rods). Crafting a rod takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its 
base price. To craft a rod, you must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP 
and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base price. 
Some rods incur extra costs in material components or XP, as 
noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those 
derived from the rod’s base price. 
 
CRAFT STAFF [ITEM CREATION] 
You can create magic staffs, each of which has mul-
tiple magical effects. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 12th. 
Benefit: You can create any staff 
whose prerequisites you meet 
(see the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for prerequisites and 
other information on staffs). 
Crafting a staff takes 
one day for each 1,000 
gp in its base price. To 
craft a staff, you must spend 
1/25 of its base price in XP and 
use up raw materials costing 
one-half of its base price. A 
newly created staff 
has 50 charges. 
Some staffs incur 
extra costs in material 
components or XP, as 
noted in their descrip-
tions. These costs are in 
addition to those derived 
from the staff ’s base price. 
 
CRAFT WAND [ITEM CREATION] 
You can create wands, which hold spells (see the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for rules on wands). 
Prerequisite: Caster level 5th. 
Benefit: You can create a wand of any 4th-level or lower spell that 
you know. Crafting a wand takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its 
base price. The base price of a wand is its caster level ×  the spell 
level × 750 gp. To craft a wand, you must spend 1/25 of this base 
price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this base 
price. A newly created wand has 50 charges. 
Any wand that stores a spell with a costly material component or 
an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the cost 
derived from the base price, you must expend fifty copies of the 
material component or pay fifty times the XP cost. 
 
CRAFT WONDROUS ITEM [ITEM CREATION] 
You can create a wide variety of magic items, such as a crystal ball or a 
flying carpet. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 3rd. 
Lidda dodges
the ray of a spell cast
by an evil cleric.
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 