 
 96 
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportunity 
when you make a touch attack to start a grapple. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Grapple as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
A monk may select Improved Grapple as a bonus feat at 1st level, 
even if she does not meet the prerequisites. 
 
IMPROVED INITIATIVE [GENERAL] 
You can react more quickly than normal in a fight. 
Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on initiative checks. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Initiative as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED OVERRUN [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at knocking down opponents. 
Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 
Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent, the target 
may not choose to avoid you. You also gain a +4 bonus on your 
Strength check to knock down your opponent. 
Normal: Without this feat, the target of an overrun can choose to 
avoid you or to block you. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Overrun as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED PRECISE SHOT [GENERAL] 
Your ranged attacks can ignore the effects of cover or concealment. 
Prerequisites: Dex 19, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base 
attack bonus +11. 
Benefit: Your ranged attacks ignore the AC bonus granted to 
targets by anything less than total cover, and the miss chance 
granted to targets by anything less than total concealment. Total 
cover and total concealment provide their normal benefits against 
your ranged attacks. 
In addition, when you shoot or throw ranged weapons at a grap-
pling opponent, you automatically strike at the opponent you have 
chosen. 
Normal: See pages 150–152 for rules on the effects of cover and 
concealment. Without this feat, a character who shoots or throws a 
ranged weapon at a target involved in a grapple must roll randomly 
to see which grappling combatant the attack strikes. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Precise Shot as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
An 11th-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style is 
treated as having Improved Precise Shot, even if he does not have 
the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no 
armor (see page 48). 
 
IMPROVED SHIELD BASH [GENERAL] 
You can bash with a shield while retaining its shield bonus to your 
Armor Class. 
Prerequisite: Shield Proficiency. 
Benefit: When you perform a shield bash, you may still apply the 
shield’s shield bonus to your AC. 
Normal: Without this feat, a character who performs a shield 
bash loses the shield’s shield bonus to AC until his or her next turn. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Shield Bash as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED SUNDER [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at attacking your opponents’ weapons and shields, as 
well as other objects. 
Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 
Benefit: W h e n  y o u  s t r i k e  a t  a n  o b j e c t  h e l d  o r  c a r r i e d  b y  a n  
opponent (such as a weapon or shield), you do not provoke an attack 
of opportunity (see Sunder, page 158). 
You also gain a +4 bonus on any attack roll made to attack an 
object held or carried by another character. 
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportunity 
when you strike at an object held or carried by another character. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Sunder as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED TRIP [GENERAL] 
You are trained not only in tripping opponents safely but also in 
following through with an attack. 
Prerequisites: Int 13, Combat Expertise. 
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you 
attempt to trip an opponent while you are unarmed. You also gain a 
+4 bonus on your Strength check to trip your opponent. 
If you trip an opponent in melee combat, you immediately get a 
melee attack against that opponent as if you hadn’t used your attack 
for the trip attempt. For example, at 11th level, Tordek gets three 
attacks at bonuses of +11, +6, and +1. In the current round, he 
attempts to trip his opponent. His first attempt fails (using up his 
first attack). His second attempt succeeds, and he immediately 
makes a melee attack against his opponent with a bonus of +6. 
Finally, he takes his last attack at a bonus of +1. 
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportunity 
when you attempt to trip an opponent while you are unarmed. See 
Trip, page 158. 
Special: At 6th level, a monk may select Improved Trip as a 
bonus feat, even if she does not have the prerequisites. 
A fighter may select Improved Trip as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED TURNING [GENERAL] 
Your turning or rebuking attempts are more powerful than normal. 
Prerequisite: Ability to turn or rebuke creatures. 
Benefit: You turn or rebuke creatures as if you were one level 
higher than you are in the class that grants you the ability. 
 
IMPROVED TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING 
[GENERAL] 
You are an expert in fighting two-handed. 
Prerequisites: Dex 17, Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus 
+6. 
Benefit: In addition to the standard single extra attack you get 
with an off-hand weapon, you get a second attack with it, albeit at a –
5 penalty (see Table 8–10, page 160). 
Normal: Without this feat, you can only get a single extra attack 
with an off-hand weapon. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Two-Weapon Fighting as 
one of his fighter bonus feats. 
A 6th-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat style 
is treated as having Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he 
does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing 
light or no armor (see page 48). 
 
IMPROVED UNARMED STRIKE [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at fighting while unarmed. 
Benefit: You are considered to be armed even when unarmed —
that is, you do not provoke attacks or opportunity from armed 
opponents when you attack them while unarmed. However, you 
still get an attack of opportunity against any opponent who makes 
an unarmed attack on you. 
In addition, your unarmed strikes can deal lethal or nonlethal 
damage, at your option. 
Normal: Without this feat, you are considered unarmed when 
attacking with an unarmed strike, and you can deal only nonlethal 
damage with such an attack. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 