 
 100 
base price, you must expend the material component or pay the XP 
when scribing the scroll. 
 
SELF-SUFFICIENT [GENERAL] 
You can take care of yourself in harsh environments and situations. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Heal checks and Survival 
checks. 
 
SHIELD PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 
You are proficient with bucklers, small shields, and large shields. 
Benefit: You can use a shield and take only the standard penalties 
(see Table 7–6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 
Normal: When you are using a shield with which 
you are not proficient, you take the shield’s 
armor check penalty on attack rolls and 
on all skill checks that involve 
moving, including Ride checks. 
Special: Barbarians, bards, 
clerics, druids, fighters, paladins, 
and rangers automatically have 
Shield Proficiency as a bonus feat. 
They need not select it. 
 
SHOT ON THE RUN 
[GENERAL] 
You are highly trained in skirmish 
ranged weapon tactics. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, 
Mobility, Point Blank Shot, base attack 
bonus +4. 
Benefit: When using the attack action 
with a ranged weapon, you can move both 
before and after the attack, provided that 
your total distance moved is not greater 
than your speed. 
Special: A fighter may select Shot on the Run as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
SILENT SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells silently. 
Benefit: A silent spell can be cast with no verbal components. 
Spells without verbal components are not affected. A silent spell 
uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level. 
Special: Bard spells cannot be enhanced by this metamagic feat. 
 
SIMPLE WEAPON PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 
You understand how to use all types of simple weapons in combat 
(see Table 7–5: Weapons, page 116, for a list of simple weapons). 
Benefit: You make attack rolls with simple weapons normally. 
Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not 
proficient, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls. 
Special: All characters except for druids, monks, rogues, and 
wizards are automatically proficient with all simple weapons. They 
need not select this feat. 
A sorcerer or wizard who casts the spell Tenser’s transformation on 
himself or herself gains proficiency with all simple weapons for the 
duration of the spell. 
 
SKILL FOCUS [GENERAL] 
Choose a skill, such as Move Silently. You have a special knack with 
that skill. 
Benefit: You get a +3 bonus on all checks involving that skill. 
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new skill. 
SNATCH ARROWS [GENERAL] 
You are adept at grabbing incoming arrows, as well as crossbow 
bolts, spears, and other projectile or thrown weapons. 
Prerequisites: Dex 15, Deflect Arrows, Improved Unarmed 
Strike. 
Benefit: When using the Deflect Arrows feat (page 93), you may 
catch the weapon instead of just deflecting it. Thrown weapons, 
such as spears or axes, can immediately be thrown back at the 
original attacker (even though it isn’t your turn) or kept for later use. 
You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use this 
feat. 
Special: A fighter may select Snatch Arrows as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
SPELL FOCUS [GENERAL] 
Choose a school of magic, such as 
illusion. Your spells of that school are 
more potent than normal. 
Benefit: Add +1 to the Difficulty 
Class for all saving throws against 
spells from the school of magic you 
select. 
Special: You can gain this feat 
multiple times. Its effects do not stack. 
Each time you take the feat, it applies 
to a new school of magic. 
 
SPELL MASTERY [SPECIAL] 
You are so intimately familiar with certain 
spells that you don’t need a spellbook to 
prepare them anymore. 
Prerequisite: Wizard level 1st. 
Benefit: Each time you take this feat, 
choose a number of spells equal to your 
Intelligence modifier that you already know. From that point on, 
you can prepare these spells without referring to a spellbook. 
Normal: Without this feat, you must use a spellbook to prepare 
all your spells, except read magic. 
 
SPELL PENETRATION [GENERAL] 
Your spells are especially potent, breaking through spell resistance 
more readily than normal. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster 
level) made to overcome a creature’s spell resistance. 
 
SPIRITED CHARGE [GENERAL] 
You are trained at making a devastating mounted charge. 
Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack. 
Benefit: When mounted and using the charge action, you deal 
double damage with a melee weapon (or triple damage with a lance). 
Special: A fighter may select Spirited Charge as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
SPRING ATTACK [GENERAL] 
You are trained in fast melee attacks and fancy footwork. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: When using the attack action with a melee weapon, you 
can move both before and after the attack, provided that your total 
distance moved is not greater than your speed. Moving in this way 
does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender you 
attack, though it might provoke attacks of opportunity from other 
creatures, if appropriate. You can’t use this feat if you are wearing 
heavy armor. 
You must move at least 5 feet both before and after you make your 
attack in order to utilize the benefits of Spring Attack. 
Illus. by W. Reynolds 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 