 
 107
he is associated with are Chaos, Good, Protection, and War. His favo-
red weapon is the longsword. Gruumsh is his nemesis, and it is be-
cause of Corellon’s battle prowess that Gruumsh is called “One-Eye.” 
 
Ehlonna 
Ehlonna, the goddess of the woodlands, is neutral good. Her most 
commonly encountered title is Ehlonna of 
the Forests. Ehlonna watches over all 
good people who live in the 
forest, love the woodlands, or 
make their livelihood there. She 
is pictured sometimes as an elf and 
sometimes as a human. She is 
especially close to elves, gnomes, 
half-elves, and halflings. She is also 
worshiped by rangers and some 
druids. The domains she is 
associated with are Animal, Good, 
Plant, and Sun. Her favored weapon 
is the longbow. 
 
Erythnul 
The god of slaughter, Erythnul, is chaotic 
evil. His title is the Many. Erythnul 
delights in panic and slaughter. In 
civilized lands, his followers 
(including evil fighters, barba-
rians, and rogues) form small, 
criminal cults. In savage lands, 
evil barbarians, gnolls, bug-
bears, ogres, and trolls common-
ly worship him. The domains he 
is associated with are Chaos, Evil, 
Trickery, and War. His favored weapon 
is a morningstar with a blunt stone head. 
 
Fharlanghn 
Fharlanghn, the god of roads, is neutral. His 
title is Dweller on the Horizon. Fhar-
langhn’s wayside shrines are 
common on well-used roads, for 
he is the god of travel, roads, 
distance, and horizons. Bards, 
other wandering adventurers, 
and merchants favor Fhar-
langhn. The domains he is 
associated with are Luck, Pro-
tection, and Travel. The quarter-
staff is his favored weapon. 
 
Garl Glittergold 
The god of gnomes, Garl Glittergold, is neutral good. He is known as 
the Joker, the Watchful Protector, the Priceless Gem, and the 
Sparkling Wit. Garl Glittergold discovered the gnomes and led them 
into the world. Since then, he has been their protector. He governs 
humor, wit, gemcutting, and jewelrymaking. The domains he is 
associated with are Good, Protection, and Trickery. Garl’s favored 
weapon is the battleaxe. He is 
renowned for the jokes and 
pranks he pulls on other 
deities, though not all his 
victims laugh off his jests. 
Garl once collapsed the 
cavern of Kurtulmak, the 
god of the kobolds. Since 
then, the two deities have been 
sworn enemies. 
Gruumsh 
Gruumsh, chief god of the orcs, is chaotic 
evil. His titles are One-Eye and He--
Who-Never-Sleeps. Gruumsh 
calls on his followers to be 
strong, to cull the weak from 
their numbers, and to take all 
the territory that Gruumsh 
thinks is rightfully theirs 
(which is almost everything). 
The domains he is associated 
with are Chaos, Evil, Strength, and 
War. Gruumsh’s favored weapon is the 
spear. He harbors a special hatred for Corel-
lon Larethian, Moradin, and their followers. In ages past, Corellon 
Larethian put out Gruumsh’s left eye in a fight. 
 
Heironeous 
The god of valor, Heironeous, is lawful good. His 
title is the Invincible. Heironeous promotes justice, 
valor, chivalry, and honor. The domains he is associ-
ated with are Good, Law, and War. His favored 
weapon is the longsword, and he is worshiped by 
paladins, good fighters, and good monks. His archen-
emy is Hextor, his half-brother. 
 
Hextor 
The god of tyranny, Hextor, is lawful evil. His 
titles are Champion of Evil, Herald of Hell, and 
Scourge of Battle. Hextor is the six-armed god of 
war, conflict, and destruction. Hextor’s worshipers 
include evil fighters and monks. The domains he is 
associated with are Destruction, Evil, Law, and War. His 
favored weapon is the flail. He sends his followers to 
commit evil, and their special purpose is to overthrow 
the followers of his half-brother Heironeous 
wherever they are found. 
 
Kord 
Kord, the god of strength, is chaotic 
good. He is known as the Brawler. 
Kord is the patron of athletes, 
especially wrestlers. His wor-
shipers include good fighters, 
barbarians, and rogues. The 
domains he is associated with are 
Chaos, Good, Luck, and Strength. 
Kord’s favored weapon is the 
greatsword. 
 
Moradin 
The god of dwarves, Moradin, is lawful good. 
His titles include the Soul Forger, 
Dwarffather, the All-Father, and the 
Creator. Moradin forged the first 
dwarves out of metal and gems 
and breathed life into them. He 
governs the arts and sciences of 
the dwarves: smithing, metalworking, 
engineering, and war. The domains he 
is associated with are Earth, Good, 
Law, and Protection. His favored 
weapon is the warhammer. 
 
 
Illus. by S. Wood 
CHAPTER 6: 
DESCRIPTION 