 
 113
spiked chains, and whips are reach weapons. A reach weapon is a 
melee weapon that allows its wielder to strike at targets that aren’t 
adjacent to him or her. Most reach double the wielder’s natural 
reach, meaning that a typical Small or Medium wielder of such a 
weapon can attack a creature 10 feet away, but not a creature in an 
adjacent square. A typical Large character wielding a reach weapon 
of the appropriate size can attack a creature 15 or 20 feet away, but 
not adjacent creatures or creatures up to 10 feet away. 
Double Weapons:  Dire flails, dwarven urgroshes, gnome hooked 
hammers, orc double axes, quarterstaffs, and two-bladed swords are 
double weapons. A character can fight with both ends of a double 
weapon as if fighting with two weapons, but he or she incurs all the 
normal attack penalties associated with two-weapon combat, just as 
though the character were wielding a one-handed weapon and a 
light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). The character 
can also choose to use a double weapon two handed, attacking with 
only one end of it. A creature wielding a double weapon in one hand 
(such as a human wielding a Small two-bladed sword) can’t use it as a 
double weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used in any 
given round. 
Thrown Weapons:  Daggers, clubs, shortspears, spears, darts, 
javelins, throwing axes, light hammers, tridents, shuriken, and nets 
are thrown weapons. The wielder applies his or her Strength mod-
ifier to damage dealt by thrown weapons (except for splash weapons, 
such as a vial of acid; see Throw Splash Weapon, page 158). 
It is possible to throw a weapon that isn’t designed to be thrown 
(that is, a melee weapon that doesn’t have a numeric entry in the 
Range Increment column on Table 7–5), but a character who does so 
takes a –4 penalty on the attack roll. Throwing a light or one-handed 
weapon is a standard action, while throwing a two-handed weapon is 
a full-round action. Regardless of the type of weapon, such an attack 
scores a threat (a possible critical hit) only on a natural roll of 20 and 
deals double damage on a critical hit. Such a weapon has a range 
increment of 10 feet. 
Projectile Weapons:  Light crossbows, slings, heavy crossbows, 
shortbows, composite shortbows, longbows, composite longbows, 
hand crossbows, and repeating crossbows are projectile weapons. 
Most projectile weapons require two hands to use (see specific 
weapon descriptions later in this chapter). A character gets no 
Strength bonus on damage rolls with a projectile weapon unless it’s 
a specially built composite shortbow, specially built composite 
longbow, or sling. If the character has a penalty for low Strength, 
apply it to damage rolls when he or she uses a bow or a sling. 
Ammunition: Projectile weapons use ammunition: arrows (for 
bows), bolts (for crossbows), or sling bullets (for slings). When using 
a bow, a character can draw ammunition as a free action; crossbows 
and slings require an action for reloading. Generally speaking, 
ammunition that hits its target is destroyed or rendered useless, 
while normal ammunition that misses has a 50% chance of being 
destroyed or lost. 
Although they are thrown weapons, shuriken are treated as 
ammunition for the purposes of drawing them, crafting masterwork 
or otherwise special versions of them (see Masterwork Weapons, 
below), and what happens to them after they are thrown. 
Light, One-Handed, and Two-Handed Melee Weapons:  This 
designation is a measure of how much effort it takes to wield a 
weapon in combat. It indicates whether a melee weapon, when 
wielded by a character of the weapon’s size category, is considered a 
light weapon, a one-handed weapon, or a two-handed weapon. 
Light: A light weapon is easier to use in one’s off hand than a one-
handed weapon is, and it can be used while grappling. A light 
weapon is used in one hand. Add the wielder’s Strength bonus (if 
any) to damage rolls for melee attacks with a light weapon if it’s used 
in the primary hand, or one-half the wielder’s Strength bonus if it’s 
used in the off hand. Using two hands to wield a light weapon gives 
no advantage on damage; the Strength bonus applies as though the 
weapon were held in the wielder’s primary hand only. 
An unarmed strike is always considered a light weapon. 
One-Handed: A one-handed weapon can be used in either the 
primary hand or the off hand. Add the wielder’s Strength bonus to 
damage rolls for melee attacks with a one-handed weapon if it’s used 
in the primary hand, or 1/2 his or her Strength bonus if it’s used in 
the off hand. If a one-handed weapon is wielded with two hands 
during melee combat, add 1-1/2 times the character’s Strength 
bonus to damage rolls. 
Two-Handed: Two hands are required to use a two-handed melee 
weapon effectively. Apply 1-1/2 times the character’s Strength 
bonus to damage rolls for melee attacks with such a weapon. 
Weapon Size: Every weapon has a size category, such as Small, 
Medium, or Large. This designation indicates the size of the creature 
for which the weapon was designed. A Small greatsword is a 
greatsword designed for a Small creature, such as a halfling. A 
Medium longsword is a longsword designed for a Medium creature, 
such as an elf. A Large shortbow is a shortbow designed for a Large 
creature, such as an ogre. 
A weapon’s size category isn’t the same as its size as an object. A 
Medium dagger (one sized for a Medium character), for instance, is a 
Tiny object (see Table 9–10: Size and Armor Class of Objects, page 
166). Instead, a weapon’s size category is keyed to the size of the 
intended wielder. In general, a light weapon (such as a dagger) is an 
object two size categories smaller than the wielder, a one-handed 
weapon (such as a longsword) is an object one size category smaller 
than the wielder, and a two-handed weapon (such as a greatsword) is 
an object of the same size category as the wielder. 
Inappropriately Sized Weapons:  A creature can’t make optimum use 
of a weapon that isn’t properly sized for it. A cumulative –2 penalty 
applies on attack rolls for each size category of difference between 
the size of its intended wielder and the size of its actual wielder. 
Thus, a human wielding a Small dagger takes a –2 penalty on attack 
rolls (one size category different), and an ogre wielding a Small 
longsword takes a –4 penalty (two size categories different). If the 
creature isn’t proficient with the weapon (a wizard attempting to 
wield a Small battleaxe, for instance), a –4 nonproficiency penalty 
also applies. 
The measure of how much effort it takes to use a weapon 
(whether the weapon is designated as a light, one-handed, or two-
handed weapon for a particular wielder) is altered by one step for 
each size category of difference between the wielder’s size and the 
size of the creature for which the weapon was designed. For 
instance, a Small greatsword (a two-handed weapon for a Small 
creature) is considered a one-handed weapon for a Medium creature, 
or a light weapon for a Large creature. Conversely, a Large dagger (a 
light weapon for a Large creature) is considered a one-handed 
weapon for a Medium creature, or a two-handed weapon for a Small 
creature. If a weapon’s designation would be changed to something 
other than light, one-handed, or two-handed by this alteration, the 
creature can’t wield the weapon at all. 
Improvised Weapons:  Sometimes objects not crafted to be 
weapons nonetheless see use in combat—people fight with any-
thing from broken bottles to chair legs to thrown mugs. Because 
such objects are not designed for this use, any creature that uses one 
in combat is considered to be nonproficient with it and takes a –4 
penalty on attack rolls made with that object. To determine the size 
category and appropriate damage for an improvised weapon, the DM 
should compare its relative size and damage potential to the weapon 
list to find a reasonable match. For instance, a table leg is similar to a 
club, while a broken bottle is similar to a dagger. An improvised 
weapon scores a threat on a natural roll of 20 and deals double 
damage on a critical hit. An improvised thrown weapon has a range 
increment of 10 feet. 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 