 
 115
Axe, Orc Double: An orc double axe is a double weapon. You can 
fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, you incur 
all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting with two 
weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon and a light 
weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). As its name suggests, 
it is often found in the hands of powerful orc fighters. A creature 
wielding an orc double axe in one hand can’t use it as a double 
weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used in any given 
round. 
Battleaxe: The battleaxe is the most common melee weapon 
among dwarves. 
Bolas: A set of bolas consists of two or three heavy wooden 
spheres connected by lengths of cord. Because the bolas can wrap 
around an enemy’s leg or other limb, you can use this weapon to 
make a ranged trip attack against an opponent. You can’t be tripped 
during your own trip attempt when using a set of bolas. 
Bolts: A crossbow bolt used as a melee weapon is treated as a light 
improvised weapon (–4 penalty on attack rolls) and deals damage as 
a dagger of its size (crit ×2). Bolts come in a wooden case that holds 
10 bolts (or 5, for a repeating crossbow). A bolt that hits its target is 
destroyed; one that misses has a 50% chance of being destroyed or 
lost. 
Bullets, Sling:  Bullets are lead spheres, much heavier than 
stones of the same size. They come in a leather pouch that holds 10 
bullets. A bullet that hits its target is destroyed; one that misses has a 
50% chance of being destroyed or lost. 
Chain, Spiked:  A spiked chain has reach, so you can strike 
opponents 10 feet away with it. In addition, unlike most other 
weapons with reach, it can be used against an adjacent foe. 
Because the chain can wrap around an enemy’s leg or other limb, 
you can make trip attacks with the chain. If you are tripped during 
your own trip attempt, you can drop the chain to avoid being 
tripped. 
When using a spiked chain, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack 
rolls made to disarm an opponent (including the roll to avoid being 
disarmed if such an attempt fails). 
You can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to apply your 
Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack rolls 
with a spiked chain sized for you, even though it isn’t a light weapon 
for you. 
Club: A wooden club is so easy to find and fashion that it has no 
cost. 
Crossbow, Hand: This exotic weapon is common among rogues 
and others who favor stealth over power. You can draw a hand 
crossbow back by hand. Loading a hand crossbow is a move action 
that provokes attacks of opportunity. 
You can shoot, but not load, a hand crossbow with one hand at no 
penalty. You can shoot a hand crossbow with each hand, but you 
take a penalty on attack rolls as if attacking with two light weapons 
(see Table 8–10: Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties, page 160). 
Crossbow, Heavy: You draw a heavy crossbow back by turning a 
small winch. Loading a heavy crossbow is a full-round action that 
provokes attacks of opportunity. 
Normally, operating a heavy crossbow requires two hands. 
However, you can shoot, but not load, a heavy crossbow with one 
hand at a –4 penalty on attack rolls. You can shoot a heavy crossbow 
with each hand, but you take a penalty on attack rolls as if attacking 
with two one-handed weapons (see Table 8–10: Two-Weapon 
Fighting Penalties, page 160). This penalty is cumulative with the 
penalty for one-handed firing. 
Crossbow, Light:  You draw a light crossbow back by pulling a 
lever. Loading a light crossbow is a move action that provokes 
attacks of opportunity. 
Normally, operating a light crossbow requires two hands. 
Illus. by L. Grant-West 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 