 
 118 
lethal damage rather than nonlethal damage with unarmed strikes. 
A strike with a gauntlet is otherwise considered an unarmed attack. 
The cost and weight given are for a single gauntlet. Medium and 
heavy armors (except breastplate) come with gauntlets. 
Gauntlet, Spiked: Your opponent cannot use a disarm action to 
disarm you of spiked gauntlets. The cost and weight given are for a 
single gauntlet. An attack with a spiked gauntlet is considered an 
armed attack. 
Glaive: A glaive has reach. You can strike opponents 10 feet away 
with it, but you can’t use it against an adjacent foe. 
Greataxe: This big, heavy axe is a favorite of barbarians and any-
body else who wants the capability to deal out incredible damage. 
Greatclub: A greatclub is a two-handed version of a regular club. 
It is often studded with nails or spikes or ringed by bands of iron. 
Greatsword: Adventurers recognize the greatsword as one of the 
best melee weapons available. It’s reliable and powerful. 
Guisarme: A guisarme has reach. You can strike opponents 10 
feet away with it, but you can’t use it against an adjacent foe. 
Because of a guisarme’s curved blade, you can also use it to make 
trip attacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can 
drop the guisarme to avoid being tripped. 
Halberd: Normally, you strike with a halberd’s axe head, but the 
spike on the end is useful against charging opponents. If you use a 
ready action to set a halberd against a charge, you deal double 
damage on a successful hit against a charging character. 
You can use the hook on the back of a halberd to make trip 
attacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can 
drop the halberd to avoid being tripped. 
Hammer, Gnome Hooked:  A gnome hooked hammer is a 
double weapon. You can fight with it as if fighting with two 
weapons, but if you do, you incur all the normal attack penalties 
associated with fighting with two weapons, just as if you were using 
a one-handed weapon and a light weapon (see Two-Weapon 
Fighting, page 160). The hammer’s blunt head is a bludgeoning 
weapon that deals 1d6 points of damage (crit ×3). Its hook is a 
piercing weapon that deals 1d4 points of damage (crit ×4). You can 
use either head as the primary weapon. The other head is the 
offhand weapon. A creature wielding a gnome hooked hammer in 
one hand can’t use it as a double weapon—only one end of the 
weapon can be used in any given round. 
You can use a gnome hooked hammer to make trip attacks. If you 
are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the gnome 
hooked hammer to avoid being tripped. 
Gnomes treat gnome hooked hammers as martial weapons. 
Hammer, Light: This is a small sledge light enough to throw. It 
is favored by dwarves. 
Handaxe: Dwarves favor these axes as off-hand weapons. 
Javelin: This weapon is a light, flexible spear intended for 
throwing. You can use it in melee, but not well. Since it is not 
designed for melee, you are treated as nonproficient with it and take 
a –4 penalty on attack rolls if you use a javelin as a melee weapon. 
Kama: The kama is a special monk weapon. This designation 
gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a kama special 
options. 
Because of a kama’s shape, you can use it to make trip attacks. If 
you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the 
kama to avoid being tripped. 
Kukri: This heavy, curved knife has its sharp edge on the inside 
of the curve. 
Lance: A lance deals double damage when used from the back of 
a charging mount. It has reach, so you can strike opponents 10 feet 
away with it, but you can’t use it against an adjacent foe. 
While mounted, you can wield a lance with one hand. 
Longbow: You need at least two hands to use a bow, regardless of 
Illus. by L. Grant-West 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 