 
 120 
roll. After the net is unfolded, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls 
with it. It takes 2 rounds for a proficient user to fold a net and twice 
that long for a nonproficient one to do so. 
Nunchaku: The nunchaku is a special monk weapon. This des-
ignation gives a monk wielding a nunchaku special options. With a 
nunchaku, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls made to 
disarm an enemy (including the roll to avoid being disarmed if such 
an attempt fails). 
Pick, Heavy or Light: A pick is designed to concentrate the force 
of its blow on a small area. A light or heavy pick resembles a miner’s 
pick but is specifically designed for war. 
Quarterstaff: The quarterstaff is the favorite weapon of many 
characters, from travelers, peasants, and merchants to monks, 
rangers, and wizards. A quarterstaff is a double weapon. You can 
fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, you incur 
all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting with two 
weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon and a light 
weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). You can also strike 
with either end singly, a fact that allows you to take full advantage of 
openings in your opponent’s defenses. A creature wielding a 
quarterstaff in one hand can’t use it as a double weapon—only one 
end of the weapon can be used in any given round. 
The quarterstaff is a special monk weapon. This designation gives 
a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a quarterstaff special 
options. 
Ranseur: A ranseur has reach. You can strike opponents 10 feet 
away with it, but you can’t use it against an adjacent foe. 
With a ranseur, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls made 
to disarm an opponent (including the roll to avoid being disarmed if 
such an attempt fails). 
Rapier: You can use the Weapon Finesse feat page 102) to apply 
your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack 
rolls with a rapier sized for you, even though it isn’t a light weapon 
for you. You can’t wield a rapier in two hands in order to apply 1-1/2 
times your Strength bonus to damage. 
Sai: A sai’s pronglike extrusions are designed to help catch and 
disarm opponent’s weapons. With a sai, you get a +4 bonus on 
opposed attack rolls made to disarm an enemy (including the roll to 
avoid being disarmed if such an attempt fails). 
The sai is a special monk weapon. This designation gives a monk 
(see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a sai special options. 
Sap: A sap comes in handy when you want to knock an opponent 
out instead of killing it. 
Scimitar: The curve on this blade gives it the effect of a keener 
edge. 
Scythe: While it resembles the standard farm implement of the 
same name, this scythe is balanced and strengthened for war. The 
design of the scythe focuses tremendous force on the sharp point, as 
well as allowing devastating slashes with the blade edge. 
Because of a scythe’s shape, you can use it to make trip attacks. If 
you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the 
scythe to avoid being tripped. 
Shield, Heavy or Light:  You can bash with a shield instead of 
using it for defense. See Armor, later in this chapter. 
Shortbow: You need at least two hands to use a bow, regardless of 
its size. You can use a shortbow while mounted. If you have a 
penalty for low Strength, apply it to damage rolls when you use a 
shortbow. If you have a bonus for high Strength, you can apply it to 
damage rolls when you use a composite shortbow (see below) but 
not a regular shortbow. 
Shortbow, Composite: You need at least two hands to use a bow, 
regardless of its size. You can use a composite shortbow while 
mounted. Composite bows are made from laminated horn, wood, or 
bone and built with a recurve, meaning that the bow remains bow-
shaped even when unstrung. All composite bows are made with a 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 