 
 130 
perfect tools for the job, so you get a +2 circumstance bonus on Craft 
checks made with them. 
Climber’s Kit: A climber’s kit includes special pitons, boot tips, 
gloves, and a harness that aids in all sorts of climbing. This is the 
perfect tool for climbing and gives you a +2 circumstance bonus on 
Climb checks. 
Disguise Kit:  This bag contains cosmetics, hair dye, and small 
physical props. The kit is the perfect tool for disguise and provides a 
+2 circumstance bonus on Disguise checks. A disguise kit is 
exhausted after ten uses. 
Healer’s Kit: This kit is full of herbs, salves, bandages and other 
useful materials. It is the perfect tool for healing and provides a +2 
circumstance bonus on Heal checks. A healer’s kit is exhausted after 
ten uses. 
Holly and Mistletoe:  Sprigs of holly and mistletoe are used by 
druids as the default divine focus for druid spells. Druids can easily 
find these plants in wooded areas and then harvest sprigs from them 
essentially for free. 
Holy Symbol, Silver or Wooden:  A holy symbol focuses posi-
tive energy. A cleric or paladin uses it as the focus for his spells and 
as a tool for turning undead. Each religion has its own holy symbol, 
and a sun symbol is the default holy symbol for clerics not associated 
with any particular religion. 
A silver holy symbol works no better than a wooden one, but it 
serves as a mark of status for the wielder. 
Unholy Symbols:  An unholy symbol is like a holy symbol except 
that it focuses negative energy and is used by evil clerics (or by 
neutral clerics who want to cast evil spells or command undead). A 
skull is the default unholy symbol for clerics not associated with any 
particular religion. 
Magnifying Glass: This simple lens allows a closer look at small 
objects. It is also useful as a substitute for flint and steel when 
starting fires. Lighting a fire with a magnifying glass requires light as 
bright as sunlight to focus, tinder to ignite, and at least a full-round 
action. A magnifying glass grants a +2 circumstance bonus on 
Appraise checks involving any item that is small or highly detailed, 
such as a gem. 
Musical Instrument, Common or Masterwork:  Popular 
instruments include the fife, recorder, lute, mandolin, and shawm. A 
masterwork instrument grants a +2 circumstance bonus on Perform 
checks involving its use. 
Scale, Merchant’s: This scale includes a small balance and pans, 
plus a suitable assortment of weights. A scale grants a +2 cir-
cumstance bonus on Appraise checks involving items that are 
valued by weight, including anything made of precious metals. 
Spell Component Pouch:  This small, watertight leather belt 
pouch has many compartments. A spellcaster with a spell compo-
nent pouch is assumed to have all the material components and 
focuses needed for spellcasting, except for those components that 
have a specific cost, divine focuses, and focuses that wouldn’t fit in a 
pouch (such as the natural pool that a druid needs to look into to 
cast scrying). 
Spellbook, Wizard’s (Blank):  This large, leatherbound book 
serves as a wizard’s reference. A spellbook has 100 pages of parch-
ment, and each spell takes up one page per spell level (one page each 
for 0-level spells). See Space in the Spellbook, page 179. 
Thieves’ Tools:  This kit contains the tools you need to use the 
Disable Device and Open Lock skills. The kit includes one or more 
skeleton keys, long metal picks and pries, a long-nosed clamp, a 
small hand saw, and a small wedge and hammer. Without these 
tools, you must improvise tools, and you take a –2 circumstance 
penalty on Disable Device and Open Locks checks. 
Thieves’ Tools, Masterwork:  This kit contains extra tools and 
tools of better make, which grant a +2 circumstance bonus on Dis-
able Device and Open Lock checks. 
Tool, Masterwork:  This well-made item is the perfect tool for 
the job. It grants a +2 circumstance bonus on a related skill check (if 
any). Some examples of this sort of item from Table 7–8 include 
masterwork artisan’s tools, masterwork thieves’ tools, disguise kit, 
climber’s kit, healer’s kit, and masterwork musical instrument. This 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 