 
 131
entry covers just about anything else. Bonuses provided by multiple 
masterwork items used toward the same skill check do not stack, so 
masterwork pitons and a masterwork climber’s kit do not provide a 
+4 bonus if used together on a Climb check. 
Water Clock: This large, bulky contrivance gives the time accu-
rate to within half an hour per day since it was last set. It requires a 
source of water, and it must be kept still because it marks time by 
the regulated flow of droplets of water. It is primarily an amusement 
for the wealthy and a tool for the student of arcane lore. Most people 
have no way to tell exact time, and there’s little point in knowing 
that it is 2:30 p.m. if nobody else does. 
 
CLOTHING 
Different characters may want different outfits for various occasions. 
A beginning character is assumed to have an artisan’s, entertainer’s, 
explorer’s, monk’s, peasant’s, scholar’s, or traveler’s outfit. This first 
outfit is free and does not count against the amount of weight a 
character can carry. 
Artisan’s Outfit: This outfit includes a shirt with buttons, a skirt 
or pants with a drawstring, shoes, and perhaps a cap or hat. It may 
also include a belt or a leather or cloth apron for carrying tools. 
Cleric’s Vestments:  These ecclesiastical clothes are for per-
forming priestly functions, not for adventuring. 
Cold Weather Outfit:  A cold weather outfit includes a wool 
coat, linen shirt, wool cap, heavy cloak, thick pants or skirt, and 
boots. This outfit grants a +5 circumstance bonus on Fortitude 
saving throws against exposure to cold weather (see the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide for information on cold dangers). 
Courtier’s Outfit: This outfit includes fancy, tailored clothes in 
whatever fashion happens to be the current style in the courts of the 
nobles. Anyone trying to influence nobles or courtiers while 
wearing street dress will have a hard time of it (–2 penalty on 
Charisma-based skill checks to influence such individuals). If you 
wear this outfit without jewelry (costing an additional 50 gp), you 
look like an out-of-place commoner. 
Entertainer’s Outfit:  This set of flashy, perhaps even gaudy, 
clothes is for entertaining. While the outfit looks whimsical, its 
practical design lets you tumble, dance, walk a tightrope, or just run 
(if the audience turns ugly). 
Explorer’s Outfit: This is a full set of clothes for someone who 
never knows what to expect. It includes sturdy boots, leather 
breeches or a skirt, a belt, a shirt (perhaps with a vest or jacket), 
gloves, and a cloak. Rather than a leather skirt, a leather overtunic 
may be worn over a cloth skirt. The clothes have plenty of pockets 
(especially the cloak). The outfit also includes any extra items you 
might need, such as a scarf or a wide-brimmed hat. 
Monk’s Outfit:  This simple outfit includes sandals, loose 
breeches, and a loose shirt, and is all bound together with sashes. 
The outfit is designed to give you maximum mobility, and it’s made 
of high-quality fabric. You can hide small weapons in pockets 
hidden in the folds, and the sashes are strong enough to serve as 
short ropes. 
Noble’s Outfit: This set of clothes is designed specifically to be 
expensive and to show it. Precious metals and gems are worked into 
the clothing. To fit into the noble crowd, every would-be noble also 
needs a signet ring (see Adventuring Gear, above) and jewelry 
(worth at least 100 gp). 
Peasant’s Outfit: This set of clothes consists of a loose shirt and 
baggy breeches, or a loose shirt and skirt or overdress. Cloth wrap-
pings are used for shoes. 
Royal Outfit:  This is just the clothing, not the royal scepter, 
crown, ring, and other accoutrements. Royal clothes are ostenta-
tious, with gems, gold, silk, and fur in abundance. 
Scholar’s Outfit: Perfect for a scholar, this outfit includes a robe, 
a belt, a cap, soft shoes, and possibly a cloak. 
Traveler’s Outfit:  This set of clothes consists of boots, a wool 
skirt or breeches, a sturdy belt, a shirt (perhaps with a vest or jacket), 
and an ample cloak with a hood. 
FOOD, DRINK, AND LODGING 
Many travelers are lodged by guilds, churches, family, or nobility. 
Adventurers, however, typically pay for hospitality. 
Inn: Poor accommodations at an inn amount to a place on the 
floor near the hearth, plus the use of a blanket if the innkeeper likes 
you and you’re not worried about fleas. Common accommodations 
consist of a place on a raised, heated floor, the use of a blanket and a 
pillow, and the presence of a higher class of company. Good 
accommodations consist of a small, private room with one bed, some 
amenities, and a covered chamber pot in the corner. 
Meals: Poor meals might be composed of bread, baked turnips, 
onions, and water. Common meals might consist of bread, chicken 
stew (easy on the chicken), carrots, and watered-down ale or wine. 
Good meals might be composed of bread and pastries, beef, peas, and 
ale or wine. 
 
MOUNTS AND RELATED GEAR 
Horses and other mounts let you travel faster and more easily. 
Barding, Medium Creature and Large Creature:  Barding is a 
type of armor that covers the head, neck, chest, body, and possibly 
legs of a horse or other mount. Barding made of medium or heavy 
armor provides better protection than light barding, but at the 
expense of speed. Barding can be made of any of the armor types 
found on Table 7–6: Armor and Shields. 
Armor for a horse (a Large nonhumanoid creature) costs four 
times as much as armor for a human (a Medium humanoid creature) 
and also weighs twice as much as the armor found on Table 7–6 (see 
Armor for Unusual Creatures, page 123). If the barding is for a pony 
or other Medium mount, the cost is only double, and the weight is 
the same as for Medium armor worn by a humanoid. 
Medium or heavy barding slows a mount that wears it, as shown 
on the table below. 
 
  ———— Base Speed —––—— 
Barding (40 ft.) (50 ft.) (60 ft.) 
Medium 30 ft. 35 ft. 40 ft. 
Heavy 30 ft. 1 35 ft. 1 40 ft. 1 
1 A mount wearing heavy armor moves at only triple its normal speed 
when running instead of quadruple. 
 
Flying mounts can’t fly in medium or heavy barding. 
Barded animals require special attention. You must take care to 
prevent chafing and sores caused by the armor. The armor must be 
removed at night and ideally should not be put on the mount except 
to prepare for a battle. Removing and fitting barding takes five times 
as long as the figures given on Table 7–7: Donning Armor. A barded 
animal cannot be used to carry any load other than the rider and 
normal saddlebags. Because of this limitation, a mounted warrior 
often leads a second mount loaded with gear and supplies. 
Dog, Riding:  This Medium dog is specially trained to carry a 
Small humanoid rider. It is brave in combat like a warhorse. You 
take no damage when you fall from a riding dog. (See the Monster 
Manual for more information on riding dogs.) 
Donkey or Mule:  The best kinds of pack animals around, don-
keys and mules are stolid in the face of danger, hardy, surefooted, 
and capable of carrying heavy loads over vast distances. Unlike a 
horse, a donkey or a mule is willing (though not eager) to enter dun-
geons and other strange or threatening places. (See the Monster 
Manual for more information on donkeys and mules.) 
Feed: Horses, donkeys, mules, and ponies can graze to sustain 
themselves, but providing feed for them(such as oats) is much better 
because it provides a more concentrated form of energy, especially if 
the animal is exerting itself. If you have a riding dog, you have to 
feed it at least some meat, which may cost more or less than the 
given amount. 
Horse: The horse is the best all-around work animal and mount 
in common use. A horse (other than a pony) is suitable as a mount 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 