 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ighty swords clash, arrows hiss through the air, claws 
rip and tear and rend; these are the thrilling sounds 
of battle. D&D adventurers constantly find them-
selves embroiled in combat situations—and they 
wouldn’t have it any other way! Whether the adven-
turers must fend off a bandit ambush on a deserted road or fight 
their way out of a bugbear lair in the deepest part of a dungeon, the 
rules in this chapter provides an exciting way to solve any combat 
situation. 
Many special abilities and forms of damage that affect combat are 
also covered in the Dungeon Master’s Guide. 
 
THE BATTLE GRID 
To help visualize events in the fictional world of the D&D game, we 
recommend the use of miniature figures and a battle grid. A battle 
grid, such as the one provided in the Dungeon Master’s Guide, consists 
of a grid of 1-inch squares. Each of these squares represents a 5-foot 
square in the game world. 
You can use the grid, along with miniature figures or some other 
form of markers or tokens, to show the marching order of your 
adventuring party (they can walk two abreast down a 10-foot-wide 
dungeon corridor or single file in a 5-foot-wide tunnel) or the 
relative location of the characters in any given situation. 
As its name implies, however, the best use for a battle grid is 
when the adventurers charge or stumble into a combat situation. 
Then the grid helps everyone play out the battle. See the diagram on 
the following page for some specifics about the battle grid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOW COMBAT WORKS 
Combat in the D&D game is cyclical; everybody acts in turn in a 
regular cycle of rounds. Combat follows this sequence: 
1. Each combatant starts out flat-footed. Once a combatant 
acts, he or she is no longer flat-footed. 
2. The DM determines which characters are aware of their 
opponents at the start of the battle. If some but not all of the 
combatants are aware of their opponents, a surprise round 
happens before regular rounds of combat begin. The 
combatants who are aware of the opponents can act in the 
surprise round, so they roll for initiative. In initiative order 
(highest to lowest), combatants who started the battle aware of 
their opponents each take one action (either a standard action 
or a move action) during the surprise round. Combatants 
who were unaware do not get to act in the surprise round. If 
no one or everyone starts the battle aware, there is no 
surprise round. 
3. Combatants who have not yet rolled initiative do so. 
All combatants are now ready to begin their first regular 
round of combat. 
4. Combatants act in initiative order (highest to lowest). 
5. When everyone has had a turn, the combatant with 
the highest initiative acts again, and steps 4 and 5 repeat 
until combat ends. 
 
COMBAT STATISTICS 
This section summarizes the statistics that determine 
success in combat, and then details how to use them. 
 
 
133