 
 135
COMBAT BASICS 
This section summarizes the rules and details concerning combat. 
 
THE BATTLE GRID 
Use a battle grid (such as the one in the Dungeon Master’s Guide ) to 
visualize combat situations. On a battle grid, each 1-inch square 
represents a 5-foot square in the game world. 
 
ROUNDS 
Combat occurs in rounds. In every round, each combatant gets to do 
something. A round represents 6 seconds in the game world. 
 
INITIATIVE 
Before the first round, each player makes an initiative check for his 
or her character. The DM makes initiative checks for the opponents. 
An initiative check is a Dexterity check (1d20+Dexterity modifier). 
Characters act in order from highest initiative result to lowest, with 
the check applying to all rounds of the combat. 
A character is flat-footed until he or she takes an action. 
 
ACTIONS 
Every round, on your character’s turn, you may take a standard 
action and a move action (in either order), two move actions, or one 
full-round action. You may also perform one or more free actions 
along with any other action, as your DM allows. 
 
ATTACKS 
In combat, the most prevalent standard action is an attack. You can 
move your speed and make an attack in a round (a move action and a 
standard action). Experienced characters can attack more than once, 
but only if they don’t move (a full-round action). Making a ranged 
attack provokes attacks of opportunity from opponents that threaten 
you (see below). 
 
Attack Roll 
To score a hit that deals damage on your attack roll, your result must 
equal or exceed the target’s Armor Class (AC). 
Melee Attack Roll: 1d20 + base attack bonus + Strength modifier 
+ size modifier. 
Ranged Attack Roll:  1d20 + base attack bonus + Dexterity 
modifier + size modifier + range penalty. 
 
Damage 
If you score a hit, roll damage and deduct it from the target’s current 
hit points. Add your Strength modifier on damage rolls involving 
melee and thrown weapons. If you’re using a weapon in your off 
hand, add one-half your Strength modifier (if it’s a bonus). If you’re 
wielding a weapon with both hands, add one and a half times your 
Strength modifier (if it’s a bonus.) 
 
Armor Class 
A character’s Armor Class (AC) is the result you need to get on your 
attack roll to hit that character in combat. 
Armor Class:  10 + armor bonus + shield bonus + Dexterity 
modifier + size modifier. 
 
Hit Points 
Hit points represent how much damage a character can take before 
falling unconscious or dying. 
 
SPELLS 
In most cases, you can move your speed and cast a spell in the same 
round (a move action and a standard action). Casting a spell 
provokes attacks of opportunity from opponents that threaten your 
(see below). 
 
SAVING THROWS 
When you are subject to an unusual or magical attack, you generally 
get a saving throw to negate or reduce its effect. To succeed on a 
saving throw, you need a result equal to or higher than its Difficulty 
Class. 
Fortitude Saving Throw: 1d20 + base save bonus + Constitution 
modifier 
Reflex Saving Throw:  1d20 + base save bonus + Dexterity 
modifier 
Will Saving Throw: 1d20 + base save bonus + Wisdom modifier 
 
MOVEMENT 
Each character has a speed measured in feet. You can move that 
distance as a move action. You can take a move action before or after 
a standard action on your turn in a round. 
You can instead forego a standard action and take two move 
actions in a round, which lets you move double your speed. Or you 
can run, which lets you move quadruple your speed but takes all of 
your actions for the round. 
 
ATTACKS OF OPPORTUNITY 
During combat, you threaten all squares adjacent to yours, even 
when it’s not your turn. An opponent that takes certain actions 
while in a threatened square provokes an attack of opportunity from 
you. An attack of opportunity is a free melee attack that does not use 
up any of your actions. You can make one attack of opportunity per 
round. Actions that provoke attacks of opportunity include moving 
(except as noted below), casting a spell, and attacking with a ranged 
weapon. 
You provoke an attack of opportunity when you move out of a 
threatened square, except: 
/rhombus4 If you withdraw (a full-round action), opponents don’t get attacks 
of opportunity when you move from your initial square. If you 
move into another threatened square, however, opponents get 
attacks of opportunity when you leave that square. 
/rhombus4 If your entire move for the round is 5 feet (a 5-foot step), oppo-
nents  don’t get attacks of opportunity when you move. 
 
DEATH, DYING, AND HEALING 
Your hit points represent how much damage you can take before 
being disabled, knocked unconscious, or killed. 
1 or More Hit Points:  As long as you have 1 or more hit points, 
you remain fully functional. 
0 Hit Points:  If your hit points drop to 0, you are disabled. You 
can only take one move action or standard action per turn, and you 
take 1 point of damage after completing an action. 
–1 to –9 Hit Points:  If your hit points drop to from –1 to –9 hit 
points, you’re unconscious and dying, and you lose 1 hit point per 
round. Each round, before losing that hit point, you have a 10% 
chance of becoming stable. While stable, you’re still unconscious. 
Each hour you have a 10% chance to regain consciousness, and if 
you don’t, you lose 1 hit point instead. 
–10 Hit Points: If your hit points fall to –10 or lower, you’re dead. 
Healing: You can stop a dying character’s loss of hit points with a 
DC 15 Heal check or with even 1 point of magical healing. If 
healing raises a character’s hit points to 1 or more, the character can 
resume acting as normal. 
 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 