 
 136 
why you apply your Dexterity modifier to your AC. 
Note that armor limits your Dexterity bonus, so if you’re wearing 
armor, you might not be able to apply your whole Dexterity bonus to 
your AC (see Table 7–6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 
Sometimes you can’t use your Dexterity bonus (if you have one). 
If you can’t react to a blow, you can’t use your Dexterity bonus to 
AC. (If you don’t have a Dexterity bonus, nothing happens.) You lose 
your Dexterity bonus when, for example, an invisible opponent 
attacks you, you’re hanging on the face of a crumbling cliff high 
above a river of lava, or you’re caught flat-footed at the beginning of 
a combat. 
Size Modifier:  The bigger a creature is, the easier it is to hit in 
combat. The smaller it is, the harder it is to hit. Since this same 
modifier applies to attack rolls, a halfling, for example, doesn’t have a 
hard time hitting another halfling. See Table 8–1: Size Modifiers, 
page 134. 
Other Modifiers: Many other factors modify your AC. 
Enhancement Bonuses:  Enhancement effects make your armor 
better (+1 chainmail, +2 large shield, etc.). 
Deflection Bonus:  Magical deflection effects ward off attacks and 
improve your AC. 
Natural Armor: Natural armor improves your AC. (Members of the 
common races don’t have natural armor, which usually consists of 
scales, fur, or layers of huge muscles.) 
Dodge Bonuses:  Some other AC bonuses represent actively 
avoiding blows, such as the dwarf’s AC bonus against giants or the 
AC bonus for fighting defensively. These bonuses are called dodge 
bonuses. Any situation that denies you your Dexterity bonus also 
denies you dodge bonuses. (Wearing armor, however, does not limit 
these bonuses the way it limits a Dexterity bonus to AC.) Unlike 
most sorts of bonuses, dodge bonuses stack with each other. A 
dwarf’s +4 dodge bonus against giants and his +2 dodge bonus for 
fighting defensively combine to give him a +6 bonus. 
Touch Attacks: Some attacks disregard armor, including shields 
and natural armor. For example, a wizard’s touch with a shocking 
grasp spell hurts you regardless of what armor you’re wearing or how 
thick your skin happens to be. In these cases, the attacker makes a 
touch attack roll (either ranged or melee). When you are the target 
of a touch attack, your AC doesn’t include any armor bonus, shield 
bonus, or natural armor bonus. All other modifiers, such as your size 
modifier, Dexterity modifier, and deflection bonus (if any) apply 
normally. 
For example, if a sorcerer tries to touch Tordek with a shocking 
grasp spell, Tordek gets his +1 Dexterity bonus, but not his +4 armor 
bonus for his scale mail or his +2 shield bonus for his large wooden 
shield. His AC is only 11 against a touch attack. 
 
HIT POINTS 
Your hit points tell you how much punishment you can take before 
dropping. Your hit points are based on your class and level, and your 
Constitution modifier. applies Most monsters’ hit points are based 
on their type, though some monsters have classes and levels, too. 
(Watch out for medusa sorcerers!) 
When your hit point total reaches 0, you’re disabled. When it 
r e a c h e s  – 1 ,  y o u ’ r e  d y i n g .  W h e n  i t  g e t s  t o  – 1 0 ,  y o u r  p r o b l e m s  a r e  
over—you’re dead (see Injury and Death, page 145). 
 
SPEED 
Your speed tells you how far you can move in a round and still do 
something, such as attack or cast a spell. Your speed depends mostly 
on your race and what armor you’re wearing. 
Dwarves, gnomes, and halflings have a speed of 20 feet (4 
squares), or 15 feet (3 squares) when wearing medium or heavy 
armor (except for dwarves, who move 20 feet in any armor). 
Humans, elves, half-elves, and half-orcs have a speed of 30 feet (6 
squares), or 20 feet (4 squares) in medium or heavy armor. 
If you use two move actions in a round (sometimes called a 
“double move” action), you can move up to double your speed. If you 
spend the entire round to run all out, you can move up to quadruple 
your normal speed (or triple if you are in heavy armor). 
 
SAVING THROWS 
As an adventurer, you have more to worry about than taking dam-
age. You also have to face the petrifying gaze of a medusa, a wyvern’s 
lethal venom, and a harpy’s compelling song. Luckily, a tough 
adventurer can survive these threats, too. 
Generally, when you are subject to an unusual or magical attack, 
you get a saving throw to avoid or reduce the effect. Like an attack 
roll, a saving throw is a d20 roll plus a bonus based on your class, 
level, and an ability score. Your saving throw modifier is: 
 
Base save bonus + ability modifier 
 
Saving Throw Types: The three different kinds of saving throws 
are Fortitude, Reflex, and Will: 
Fortitude: These saves measure your ability to stand up to physical 
punishment or attacks against your vitality and health. Apply your 
Constitution modifier to your Fortitude saving throws. Fortitude 
saves can be made against attacks or effects such as poison, disease, 
paralysis, petrification, energy drain, and disintegrate. 
Reflex: These saves test your ability to dodge area attacks. Apply 
your Dexterity modifier to your Reflex saving throws.  Reflex saves 
can be made against attacks or effects such as pit traps, catching on 
fire, fireball, lighting bolt, and red dragon breath. 
Will: These saves reflect your resistance to mental influence as 
well as many magical effects. Apply your Wisdom modifier to your 
Will saving throws. Will saves can be made against attacks or effects 
such as charm person, hold person, and most illusion spells. 
Saving Throw Difficulty Class: The DC for a save is determined 
by the attack itself. Two examples: A Medium monstrous centipede’s 
poison allows a DC 11 Fortitude save. An ancient red dragon’s fiery 
breath allows a DC 36 Reflex save. 
Automatic Failures and Successes:  A natural 1 (the d20 comes 
up 1) on a saving throw is always a failure (and may cause damage to 
exposed items; see Items Surviving after a Saving Throw, page 177). 
A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) is always a success. 
 
INITIATIVE 
Every round, each combatant gets to do something. The combatants’ 
initiative checks, from highest to lowest, determine the order in 
which they act. 
Initiative Checks: At the start of a battle, each combatant makes 
an initiative check. An initiative check is a Dexterity check. Each 
character applies his or her Dexterity modifier to the roll. The DM 
finds out what order characters are acting in, counting down from 
highest result to lowest, and each character acts in turn. In every 
round that follows, the characters act in the same order (unless a 
character takes an action that results in his or her initiative 
changing; see Special Initiative Actions, page 160). Usually, the DM 
writes the names of the characters down in initiative order so that 
on subsequent rounds he can move quickly from one character to 
the next. If two or more combatants have the same initiative check 
result, the combatants who are tied act in order of total initiative 
modifier (highest first). If there is still a tie, the tied characters 
should roll again to determine which one of them goes before the 
other. 
Monster Initiative: Typically, the DM makes a single initiative 
checks for monsters and other opponents. That way, each player gets 
a turn each round and the DM also gets one turn. At the DM’s 
option, however, he can make separate initiative checks for different 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 