 
 137
groups of monsters or even for individual creatures. For instance, 
the DM may make one initiative checks for an evil cleric of Nerull 
and another check for all seven of her zombie guards. 
Flat-Footed: At the start of a battle, before you have had a chance 
to act (specifically, before your first regular turn in the initiative 
order), you are flat-footed. You can’t use your Dexterity bonus to AC 
(if any) while flat-footed. (This fact can be very bad for you if you’re 
attacked by rogues.) Barbarians and rogues have the uncanny dodge 
extraordinary ability, which allows them to avoid losing their 
Dexterity bonus to AC due to being flat-footed. A flat-footed 
character can’t make attacks of opportunity. 
Inaction: Even if you can’t take actions (for instance, if you 
become paralysed or unconscious), you retain your initiative score 
for the duration of the encounter. For example, when paralysed by a 
ghoul, you may miss one or more actions, but once the cleric casts 
remove paralysis on you, you may act again on your next turn. 
 
SURPRISE 
When a combat starts, if you are not aware of your opponents and 
they are aware of you, you’re surprised. 
 
Determining Awareness 
Sometimes all the combatants on a side are aware of their oppo-
nents, sometimes none are, and sometimes only some of them are. 
Sometimes a few combatants on each side are aware and the other 
combatants on each side are unaware. 
The DM determines who is aware of whom at the start of a battle. 
He may call for Listen checks, Spot checks, or other checks to see 
how aware the adventurers are of their opponents. Some example 
situations: 
/rhombus4 The party (including Tordek, a fighter, and Jozan, a cleric, clang-
ing along in metal armor) comes to a door in a dungeon. The DM 
knows that the displacer beasts beyond the door hear the party. 
Lidda listens at the door, hears guttural snarling, and warns the 
rest of the party. Tordek breaks the door open. Both sides are 
aware; neither is surprised. The characters and displacer beasts 
make initiative checks, and the battle begins. 
/rhombus4 The party explores a ruined armory, looking through the rusted 
weapons for anything of value. Kobolds lurk in the nooks and 
crannies, waiting for the right time to strike. Jozan spots one of 
the kobolds, and the kobolds shriek and charge. The kobolds and 
Jozan each get a standard action during the surprise round. 
Kobolds that are close enough can charge adventurers and attack 
them. Others can move to try to put themselves in advantageous 
positions or shoot arrows at the flat-footed party members. Jozan 
can cast a spell, attack, or take some other action. After the 
surprise round, the first regular round begins. 
/rhombus4 The party advances down a dark corridor, using light spells to see 
where they’re going. At the end of the corridor, outside the range 
of the illumination, a kobold sorcerer doesn’t want to be 
disturbed, and she angrily casts a lightning bolt. That’s the surprise 
round. After the lightning bolt, the first regular round begins with 
the party in a tough spot, since they still can’t see who attacked 
them. 
The Surprise Round:  If some but not all of the combatants are 
aware of their opponents, a surprise round happens before regular 
rounds begin. Any combatants aware of the opponents can act in the 
surprise round, so they roll for initiative. In initiative order (highest 
to lowest), combatants who started the battle aware of their 
opponents each take a standard action during the surprise round 
(see Standard Actions, page 139). You can also take free actions 
during the surprise round, at the DM’s discretion. If no one or 
everyone is surprised, no surprise round occurs. 
Unaware Combatants: Combatants who are unaware at the start 
of battle don’t get to act in the surprise round. Unaware combatants 
are flat-footed because they have not acted yet, so they lose any 
Dexterity bonus to AC. 
ATTACKS OF OPPORTUNITY 
The melee combat rules assume that combatants are actively 
avoiding attacks. A player doesn’t have to declare anything special 
for her character to be on the defensive. Even if a character’s 
miniature figure is just standing there on the battle grid, you can be 
sure that if some orc with a falchion attacks the character, she is 
weaving, dodging, and even threatening the orc with a weapon to 
keep the orc a little worried for his own hide. 
Sometimes, however, a combatant in a melee lets her guard down. 
In this case, combatants near her can take advantage of her lapse in 
defense to attack her for free. These free attacks are called attacks of 
opportunity (see the diagram on the next page). 
Threatened Squares:  You threaten all squares into which you 
can make a melee attack, even when it is not your action. Generally, 
that means everything in all squares adjacent to your space 
(including diagonally). An enemy that takes certain actions while in 
a threatened square provokes an attack of opportunity from you. If 
you’re unarmed, you don’t normally threaten any squares and thus 
can’t make attacks of opportunity (but see Unarmed Attacks, page 
139). 
Reach Weapons:  Most creatures of Medium or smaller size have a 
reach of only 5 feet. This means that they can make melee attacks 
only against creatures up to 5 feet (1 square) away. However, Small 
and Medium creatures wielding reach weapons (such as a longspear) 
threaten more squares than a typical creature. For instance, a 
longspear-wielding human threatens all squares 10 feet (2 squares) 
away, even diagonally. (This is an exception to the rule that 2 squares 
of diagonal distance is measured as 15 feet.) In addition, most 
creatures larger than Medium have a natural reach of 10 feet or 
more; see Big and Little Creatures in Combat, page 149. 
Provoking an Attack of Opportunity: Two kinds of actions can 
provoke attacks of opportunity: moving out of a threatened square 
and performing an action within a threatened square. 
Moving: Moving out of a threatened square usually provokes an 
attack of opportunity from the threatening opponent. There are two 
common methods of avoiding such an attack—the 5-foot-step (see 
page 144) and the withdraw action (see page 143). 
Performing a Distracting Act:  Some actions, when performed in a 
threatened square, provoke attacks of opportunity as you divert your 
attention from the battle. Casting a spell and attacking with a ranged 
weapon, for example, are distracting actions. Table 8–2: Actions in 
Combat notes many of the actions that provoke attacks of oppor-
tunity. 
Remember that even actions that normally provoke attacks of 
opportunity may have exceptions to this rule. For instance, a char-
acter with the Improved Unarmed Strike feat doesn’t incur an attack 
of opportunity for making an unarmed attack. 
Making an Attack of Opportunity:  An attack of opportunity is 
a single melee attack, and you can only make one per round. You 
don’t have to make an attack of opportunity if you don’t want to. 
An experienced character gets additional regular melee attacks 
(by using the full attack action), but at a lower attack bonus. You 
make your attack of opportunity, however, at your normal attack 
bonus—even if you’ve already attacked in the round. 
An attack of opportunity “interrupts” the normal flow of actions 
in the round. If an attack of opportunity is provoked, immediately 
resolve the attack of opportunity, then continue with the next 
character’s turn (or complete the current turn, if the attack of 
opportunity was provoked in the midst of a character’s turn). 
Combat Reflexes and Additional Attacks of Opportunity:  If you have 
the Combat Reflexes feat (page 92), you can add your Dexterity 
modifier to the number of attacks of opportunity you can make in a 
round. This feat does not let you make more than one attack for a 
given opportunity, but if the same opponent provokes two attacks of 
opportunity from you—such as by moving out of a threatened 
square and then casting a spell in a threatened square—you could 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 