 
 140 
damage for your weapon (see Table 7–5: Weapon, page 116). Damage 
is deducted from the target’s current hit points. If the opponent’s hit 
points drop to 0 or lower, he’s in bad shape (see Injury and Death, 
page 145). 
Multiple Attacks:  A character who can make more than one 
attack per round must use the full attack action (see Full-Round 
Actions, below) in order to get more than one attack. 
Shooting or Throwing into a Melee:  If you shoot or throw a 
ranged weapon at a target engaged in melee with a friendly char-
acter, you take a –4 penalty on your attack roll because you have to 
aim carefully to avoid hitting your friend. Two characters are 
engaged in melee if they are enemies of each other and either 
threatens the other. (An unconscious or otherwise immobilized 
character is not considered engaged unless he is actually being 
attacked.) 
If your target (or the part of your target you’re aiming at, if it’s a 
big target) is at least 10 feet away from the nearest friendly character, 
you can avoid the –4 penalty, even if the creature you’re aiming at is 
engaged in melee with a friendly character. 
Precise Shot: If you have the Precise Shot feat (page 98), you don’t 
take this penalty. 
Fighting Defensively as a Standard Action:  You can choose to 
fight defensively when attacking. If you do so, you take a –4 penalty 
on all attacks in a round to gain a +2 dodge bonus to AC for the same 
round. This bonus stacks with the AC bonus granted by the Combat 
Expertise feat (page 92). 
 
Cast a Spell 
Most spells require 1 standard action to cast. You can cast such a 
spell either before or after you take a move action. See Chapter 10: 
magic for details on casting spells, their effects, and so on. 
Note: You retain your Dexterity bonus to AC while casting. 
Spell Components: To cast a spell with a verbal (V) component, 
your character must speak in a firm voice. If you’re gagged or in the 
area of a silence spell, you can’t cast such a spell. A spellcaster who 
has been deafened has a 20% chance to spoil any spell he tries to cast 
if that spell has a verbal component. 
To cast a spell with a somatic (S) component, you must gesture 
freely with at least one hand. You can’t cast a spell of this type while 
bound, grappling, or with both your hands full or occupied 
(swimming, clinging to a cliff, or the like). 
To cast a spell with a material (M), focus (F), or divine focus (DF) 
component, you have to have the proper materials, as described by 
the spell. Unless these materials are elaborate, such as the 2-foot-by-
4-boot mirror that a wizard needs to cast scrying, preparing these 
materials is a free action. For material components and focuses 
whose costs are not listed, you can assume that you have them if you 
have your spell component pouch. 
Some spells have an experience point (XP) component and entail 
an experience point cost to you. No spell, not even restoration, can 
restore the lost XP. You cannot spend so much XP that you lose a 
level, so you cannot cast the spell unless you have enough XP to 
spare. However, you may, on gaining enough XP to achieve a new 
level, immediately spend the XP on casting the spell rather than 
keeping it to advance a level. The XP are expended when you cast 
the spell, whether or not the casting succeeds. 
Concentration: You must concentrate to cast a spell. If you can’t 
concentrate (because you are on the deck of a storm-tossed ship, for 
instance), you can’t cast a spell. If you start casting a spell but 
something interferes with your concentration, such as an ogre 
taking the opportunity to hit you with its club (successfully hitting 
you with his attack of opportunity), you must make a Concentration 
check or lose the spell. The check’s DC depends on what is 
threatening your concentration (see the Concentration skill, page 
69, and Concentration, page 170). If you fail, the spell fizzles with no 
effect. If you prepare spells (as a wizard, cleric, druid, paladin, or 
ranger does), it is lost from preparation. If you cast at will (as a 
sorcerer or bard does), it counts against your daily limit of spells 
even though you did not cast it successfully. 
Concentrating to Maintain a Spell:  Some spells require con-
tinued concentration to keep them going. Concentrating to main-
tain a spell is a standard action that doesn’t provoke an attack of 
opportunity. Anything that could break your concentration when 
casting a spell can keep you from concentrating to maintain a spell. 
If your concentration breaks, the spell ends. 
Casting Time:  Most spells have a casting time of 1 standard 
action. A spell cast in this manner immediately takes effect. 
Attacks of Opportunity:  Generally, if you cast a spell, you 
provoke attacks of opportunity from threatening enemies. If you 
take damage from an attack of opportunity, you must make a 
Concentration check (DC 10 + points of damage taken + spell level) 
or lose the spell. Spells that require only a free action to cast (such as 
feather fall  or any quickened spell) don’t provoke attacks of oppor-
tunity. 
Casting on the Defensive: You may attempt to cast a spell while 
paying attention to threats and avoiding blows. In this case, you are 
n o  m o r e  v u l n e r a b l e  t o  a t t a c k  t h a n  y o u  w o u l d  b e  i f  y o u  w e r e  j u s t  
standing there, so casting a spell while on the defensive does not 
provoke an attack of opportunity. It does, however, require a 
Concentration check (DC 15 + spell level) to pull off. Failure means 
that you lose the spell. 
Touch Spells in Combat:  Many spells have a range of touch. To 
use these spells, you cast the spell and then touch the subject, either 
in the same round or any time later. In the same round that you cast 
the spell, you may also touch (or attempt to touch) the target. You 
may take your move before casting the spell, after touching the 
CRITICAL HITS 
When you make an attack roll and get a natural 20 (the d20 shows 20),
you hit regardless of your target’s Armor Class, and you have scored a
threat. The hit might be a critical hit (or “crit”). To find out if it’s a critical
hit, you immediately make a critical roll—another attack roll with all the
same modifiers as the attack roll you just made. If the critical roll also
results in a hit against the target’s AC, your original hit is a critical hit.
(The critical roll just needs to hit to give you a crit. It doesn’t need to
come up 20 again.) If the critical roll is a miss, then your hit is just a
regular hit. 
A critical hit means that you roll your damage more than once, with all 
your usual bonuses, and add the rolls together. Unless otherwise
specified, the threat range for a critical hit on an attack roll is 20, and the
multiplier is ×2. 
Exception: Extra damage over and above a weapon’s normal damage,
such as that dealt by a sneak attack or the special ability of a flaming 
sword, is not multiplied when you score a critical hit. 
Increased Threat Range: Sometimes your threat range is greater than 
20. That is, you can score a threat on a lower number. Longswords, for 
instance, give you a thread on a natural attack roll of 19 or 20. In such 
cases, a roll of lower than 20 is not an automatic hit. Any attack roll that 
doesn’t result in a hit is not a threat. 
Increased Critical Multiplier:  Some weapons, such as battleaxes and
arrows, deal better than double damage on a critical hit. See Table 7–5: 
Weapons (page 116) and the Critical section of Weapon Qualities (page 
114). 
Spells and Critical Hits: A spell that requires an attack roll, such as 
shocking grasp or Melf’s acid arrow , can score a critical hit. A spell attack 
that requires no attack roll, such as lightning bolt, cannot score a critical 
hit. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 