 
 143
bonus of +1 or higher, you can ready or loose a shield as a free action 
combined with a regular move. 
Dropping a carried (but not worn) shield is a free action. 
 
Manipulate an Item 
In most cases, moving or manipulating an item is a move action. 
This includes retrieving or putting away a stored item, picking up an 
item, moving a heavy object, and opening a door. Examples of this 
kind of action, along with whether they incur an attack of 
opportunity, are given in Table 8–2: Actions in Combat. 
 
Direct or Redirect a Spell 
Some spells, such as flaming sphere and spiritual weapon, allow you to 
redirect the effect to new targets or areas after you cast the spell. 
Redirecting a spell requires a move action and does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity or require concentration (see Cast a Spell 
under Standard Actions, page 140). 
 
Stand Up 
Standing up from a prone position requires a move action and pro-
vokes attacks of opportunity. 
 
Mount/Dismount a Steed 
Mounting or dismounting from a steed requires a move action. 
Fast Mount or Dismount: You can mount or dismount as a free 
action with a DC 20 Ride check (your armor check penalty, if any, 
applies to this check). If you fail the check, mounting or dis-
mounting is a move action instead. (You can’t attempt a fast mount 
or fast dismount unless you can perform the mount or dismount as a 
move action in the current round.) 
 
FULL-ROUND ACTIONS 
A full-round action requires an entire round to complete. Thus, it 
can’t be coupled with a standard or a move action, though if it does 
not involve moving any distance, you can take a 5-foot step. 
 
Full Attack 
If you get more than one attack per round because your base attack 
bonus is high enough, because you fight with two weapons or a 
double weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting under Special Attacks, 
page 160), or for some special reason (such as a feat or a magic item) 
you must use a full-round action to get your additional attacks. You 
do not need to specify the targets of your attacks ahead of time. You 
can see how the earlier attacks turn out before assigning the later 
ones. 
The only movement you can take during a full attack is a 5-foot 
step. You may take the step before, after, or between your attacks. 
If you get multiple attacks because your base attack bonus is high 
enough, you must make the attacks in order from highest bonus to 
lowest. If you are using two weapons, you can strike with either 
weapon first. If you are using a double weapon, you can strike with 
either part of the weapon first. 
Deciding between an Attack or a Full Attack:  After your first 
attack, you can decide to take a move action instead of making your 
remaining attacks, depending on how the first attack turns out. If 
you’ve already taken a 5-foot step, you can’t use your move action to 
move any distance, but you could still use a different kind of move 
action. 
Fighting Defensively as a Full-Round Action:  You can choose 
to fight defensively when taking a full attack action. If you do so, 
you take a –4 penalty on all attacks in a round to gain a +2 dodge 
bonus to AC for the same round. 
Cleave: The extra attack granted by the Cleave feat (page 92) or 
Great Cleave feat (page 94) can be taken whenever they apply. This 
is an exception to the normal limit to the number of attacks you can 
take when not using a full attack action. 
Cast a Spell 
A spell that takes 1 round to cast is a full-round action. It comes into 
effect just before the beginning of your turn in the round after you 
began casting the spell. You then act normally after the spell is 
completed. 
A spell that takes 1 minute to cast comes into effect just before 
your turn 1 minute later (and for each of those 10 rounds, you are 
casting a spell as a full-round action). These actions must be 
consecutive and uninterrupted, or the spell automatically fails. 
When you begin a spell that takes 1 round or longer to cast, you 
must continue the invocations, gestures, and concentration from 
one round to just before your turn in the next round (at least). If you 
lose concentration after starting the spell and before it is complete, 
you lose the spell. 
You only provoke attacks of opportunity when you begin casting 
a spell, even though you might continue casting for at least one full 
round. While casting a spell, you don’t threaten any squares around 
you. 
This action is otherwise identical to the cast a spell action de-
scribed under Standard Actions. 
Casting a Metamagic Spell: Sorcerers and bards must take more 
time to cast a metamagic spell (one enhanced by a metamagic feat) 
than a regular spell. If a spell’s normal casting time is 1 standard 
action, casting a metamagic version of the spell is a full-round action 
for a sorcerer or bard. Note that this isn’t the same as a spell with a 1-
round casting time—the spell takes effect in the same round that 
you begin casting, and you aren’t required to continue the 
invocations, gestures, and concentration until your next turn. For 
spells with a longer casting time, it takes an extra full-round action 
to cast the metamagic spell. 
Clerics must take more time to spontaneously cast a metamagic 
version of a cure or inflict spell. For instance, an 11th-level cleric can 
swap out a prepared 6th-level spell to cast an empowered cure critical 
wounds. Spontaneously casting a metamagic version of a spell with a 
casting time of 1 standard action is a full-round action, and spells 
with longer casting times take an extra full-round action to cast. 
 
Use Special Ability 
Using a special ability is usually a standard action, but some may be 
full-round actions, as defined by the ability. See Special Abilities, 
page 180, and the Use Special Ability action under Standard Actions, 
page 142. 
 
Withdraw 
Withdrawing from melee combat is a full-round action. When you 
withdraw, you can move up to double your speed. The square you 
start out in is not considered threatened by any opponent you can 
see, and therefore visible enemies do not get attacks of opportunity 
against you when you move from that square. (Invisible enemies 
still get attacks of opportunity against you, and you can’t withdraw 
from combat if you’re blinded.) You can’t take a 5-foot step during 
the same round in which you withdraw. 
If, during the process of withdrawing, you move out of a 
threatened square (other than the one you started in), enemies get 
attacks of opportunity as normal. 
You may not withdraw using a form of movement for which you 
don’t have a listed speed. For example, a monstrous spider has a 
listed climb speed, so it can withdraw by climbing away. Your 
character doesn’t normally have a listed climb speed (unless you’re 
under the effect of a spider climb spell, for example), so you can’t use 
climbing to withdraw from combat. 
Note that despite the name of this action, you don’t actually have 
to leave combat entirely. For instance, you could use a withdraw 
action to move away from one enemy and toward another. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 