 
 146 
him conscious and disabled. Healing that raises his hit points to 1 or 
more makes him fully functional again, just as if he’d never been 
reduced to 0 or lower. A spellcaster retains the spellcasting capa-
bility she had before dropping below 0 hit points. 
A stable character who has been tended by a healer or who has 
been magically healed eventually regains consciousness and re-
covers hit points naturally. If the character has no one to tend him, 
however, his life is still in danger, and he may yet slip away. 
Recovering with Help: One hour after a tended, dying character 
becomes stable, roll d%. He has a 10% chance of becoming con-
scious, at which point he is disabled (as if he had 0 hit points). If he 
remains unconscious, he has the same chance to revive and become 
disabled every hour. Even if unconscious, he recovers hit points 
naturally. He is back to normal when his hit points rise to 1 or 
higher. 
Recovering without Help:  A severely wounded character left 
alone usually dies. He has a small chance, however, of recovering on 
his own. Even if he seems as though he’s pulling through, he can 
still finally succumb to his wounds hours or days after originally 
taking damage. 
A character who becomes stable on his own (by making the 10% 
roll while dying) and who has no one to tend to him still loses hit 
points, just at a slower rate. He has a 10% chance each hour of 
becoming conscious. Each time he misses his hourly roll to become 
conscious, he loses 1 hit point. He also does not recover hit points 
through natural healing. 
Even once he becomes conscious and is disabled, an unaided 
character still does not recover hit points naturally. Instead, each 
day he has a 10% chance to start recovering hit points naturally 
(starting with that day); otherwise, he loses 1 hit point. 
Once an unaided character starts recovering hit points naturally, 
he is no longer in danger of naturally losing hit points (even if his 
current hit point total is negative). 
 
HEALING 
After taking damage, you can recover hit points through natural 
healing or through magical healing. In any case, you can’t regain hit 
points past your full normal hit point total. 
Natural Healing:  With a full night’s rest (8 hours of sleep or 
more), you recover 1 hit point per character level. For example, a 
5th-level fighter recovers 5 hit points with a night of rest. Any sig-
nificant interruption (such as combat or the like) during your rest 
prevents you from healing that night. 
If you undergo complete bed rest for an entire day and night, you 
recover twice your character level in hit points. A 5th-level fighter 
recovers 10 hit points per 24 hours of bed rest. 
Magical Healing:  Various abilities and spells, such as a cleric’s 
cure spells or a paladin’s lay on hands ability,  can restore hit points. 
Healing Limits: You can never recover more hit points than you 
lost. Magical healing won’t raise your current hit points higher than 
your full normal hit point total. 
Healing Ability Damage:  Ability damage is temporary, just as 
hit point damage is. Ability damage returns at the rate of 1 point per 
night of rest (8 hours) for each affected ability score. Complete bed 
rest restores 2 points per day (24 hours) for each affected ability 
score. 
 
TEMPORARY HIT POINTS 
Certain effects, such as the aid spell, give a character temporary hit 
points. When a character gains temporary hit points, note his cur-
rent hit point total. When the temporary hit points go away, such as 
at the end of the aid spell’s duration, the character’s hit points drop 
to his current hit point total. If the character’s hit points are below 
his current hit point total at that time, all the temporary hit points 
have already been lost and the character’s hit point total does not 
drop further. 
When temporary hit points are lost, they cannot be restored as 
real hit points can be, even by magic. 
Increases in Constitution Score and Current Hit Points:  An 
increase in a character’s Constitution score, even a temporary one, 
can give her more hit points (an effective hit point increase), but 
these are not temporary hit points. They can be restored, such as 
with cure light wounds , and they are not lost first as temporary hit 
points are. For example, Krusk (now a 3rd-level barbarian) gains +4 
to his Constitution score and +6 hit points when he rages, raising his 
hit points from 31 to 37. If Krusk takes damage dropping him to 32 
hit points, Jozan can cure those lost points and get him back to 37. If 
Krusk is so wounded at the end of his rage that he only has 5 hit 
points left, then when he loses his 6 extra hit points, he drops to –1 
hit points and is dying. 
 
NONLETHAL DAMAGE 
Sometimes you get roughed up or weakened, such as by getting 
clocked in a fistfight or tired out by a forced march. This sort of 
trauma won’t kill you, but it can knock you out or make you faint. 
If you take sufficient nonlethal damage, you fall unconscious, but 
you don’t die. Nonlethal damage goes away much faster than lethal 
damage does. 
Dealing Nonlethal Damage:  Certain attacks deal nonlethal 
damage, such as a normal human’s unarmed strike (a punch, kick, or 
head butt). Other effects, such as heat or being exhausted, also deal 
nonlethal damage. When you take nonlethal damage, keep a 
running total of how much you’ve accumulated. Do not deduct the 
nonlethal damage number from your current hit points . It is not “real” 
damage. Instead, when your nonlethal damage equals your current 
hit points, you’re staggered, and when it exceeds your current hit 
points, you fall unconscious. It doesn’t matter whether the nonlethal 
damage equals or exceeds your current hit points because the 
nonlethal damage has gone up or because your current hit points 
have gone down. 
Nonlethal Damage with a Weapon that Deals Lethal Damage:  You can 
use a melee weapon that deals lethal damage to deal nonlethal 
damage instead, but you take a –4 penalty on your attack roll 
because you have to use the flat of the blade, strike at nonvital areas, 
or check your swing. 
Lethal Damage with a Weapon that Deals Nonlethal Damage:  You can 
use a weapon that deals nonlethal damage, including an unarmed 
strike, to deal lethal damage instead, but you take a –4 penalty on 
your attack roll because you have to strike only in the most 
vulnerable areas to inflict lethal damage. 
Staggered and Unconscious:  When your nonlethal damage 
equals your current hit points, you’re staggered. You’re so roughed 
up that you can only take a standard action or a move action in each 
round. You cease being staggered when your current hit points once 
again exceed your nonlethal damage. 
When your nonlethal damage exceeds your current hit points, 
you fall unconscious. While unconscious, you are helpless (see 
Helpless Defenders, page 153). 
Spellcasters who fall unconscious retain any spellcasting ability 
they had before going unconscious. 
Healing Nonlethal Damage:  You heal nonlethal damage at the 
rate of 1 hit point per hour per character level. For example, a 7th-
level wizard heals 7 points of nonlethal damage each hour until all 
the nonlethal damage is gone. 
When a spell or a magical power cures hit point damage, it also 
removes an equal amount of nonlethal damage. 
 
MOVEMENT, POSITION, 
AND DISTANCE 
Few characters in a fight stand around motionless. Enemies appear 
and charge the party. The heroes reply, advancing to take on new 
foes after they down their first opponents. Wizards remain outside 
the fight, looking for the best place to use their magic. Rogues 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 