 
 153
light. (Fog, smoke, foliage, and other visual obstructions work nor-
mally against characters with darkvision or low-light vision.) 
Although invisibility provides total concealment, sighted oppo-
nents may still make Spot checks to notice the location of an invis-
ible character. An invisible character gains a +20 bonus on Hide 
checks if moving, or a +40 bonus on Hide checks when not moving 
(even though opponents can’t see you, they might be able to figure 
out where you are from other visual clues). 
Varying Degrees of Concealment:  As with cover, it’s usually 
not worth differentiating between more degrees of concealment 
than described above. However, the DM may rule that certain situ-
ations provide more or less than typical concealment, and modify 
the miss chance accordingly. For instance, a light fog might only 
provide a 10% miss chance, while near-total darkness could provide a 
40% miss chance (and a +10 circumstance bonus on Hide checks). 
 
FLANKING 
When making a melee attack, you get a +2 flanking bonus if your 
opponent is threatened by a character or creature friendly to you on 
the opponent’s opposite border or opposite corner. 
When in doubt about whether two friendly characters flank an 
opponent in the middle, trace an imaginary line between the two 
friendly characters’ centers. If the line passes through opposite 
borders of the opponent’s space (including corners of those bor-
ders), then the opponent is flanked. 
Exception: If a flanker takes up more than 1 square, it gets the 
flanking bonus if any square it occupies counts for flanking. 
Only a creature or character that threatens the defender can help 
an attacker get a flanking bonus. 
Creatures with a reach of 0 feet can’t flank an opponent. 
 
HELPLESS DEFENDERS 
A helpless opponent is someone who is bound, sleeping, paralyzed, 
unconscious, or otherwise at your mercy. 
Regular Attack:  A helpless character takes a –4 penalty to AC 
against melee attacks, but no penalty to AC against ranged attacks. A 
helpless defender can’t use any Dexterity bonus to AC. In fact, his 
Dexterity score is treated as if it were 0 and his Dexterity modifier to 
AC as if it were –5 (and a rogue can sneak attack him). 
Coup de Grace:  As a full-round action, you can use a melee 
weapon to deliver a coup de grace to a helpless opponent. You can 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 