 
 159
or if you are tripping with a weapon (see below), you don’t provoke 
an attack of opportunity for making a trip attack. 
Being Tripped (Prone):  A tripped character is prone (see Table 
8–6: Armor Class Modifiers). Standing up is a move action. 
Tripping a Mounted Opponent:  You may make a trip attack 
against a mounted opponent. The defender may make a Ride check 
in place of his Dexterity or Strength check. If you succeed, you pull 
the rider from his mount. 
Tripping with a Weapon:  Some weapons, including the spiked 
chain, dire flail, heavy flail, light flail, guisarme, halberd, and whip, 
can be used to make trip attacks. In this case, you make a melee 
touch attack with the weapon instead of an unarmed melee touch 
attack, and you don’t provoke an attack of opportunity. If you are 
tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the weapon to 
avoid being tripped. 
 
TURN OR REBUKE UNDEAD 
Good clerics and paladins and some neutral clerics can channel 
positive energy, which can halt, drive off (rout), or destroy undead. 
Evil clerics and some neutral clerics can channel negative energy, 
which can halt, awe (rebuke), control (command), or bolster undead. 
Regardless of the effect, the general term for the activity is “turning.” 
When attempting to exercise their divine control over these crea-
tures, characters make turning checks. 
 
Turning Checks 
Turning undead is a supernatural ability that a character can per-
form as a standard action. It does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
You must present your holy symbol to turn undead. Turning is 
considered an attack. 
Times per Day:  You may attempt to turn undead a number of 
times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. You can increase 
this number by taking the Extra Turning feat (page 94). 
Range: You turn the closest turnable undead first, and you can’t 
turn undead that are more than 60 feet away or that have total cover 
relative to you. You don’t need line of sight to a target, but you do 
need line of effect (see page 176). 
Turning Check: The first thing you do is roll a turning check to 
see how powerful an undead creature you can turn. This is a Charis-
ma check (1d20 + your Charisma modifier). Table 8–9: Turning 
Undead gives you the Hit Dice of the most powerful undead you 
can affect, relative to your level. On a given turning attempt, you can 
turn no undead creature whose Hit Dice exceed the result on this 
table. 
Turning Damage: If your roll on Table 8–9: Turning Undead is 
high enough to let you turn at least some of the undead within 60 
feet, roll 2d6 + your cleric level + your Charisma modifier for turn-
ing damage. That’s how many total Hit Dice of undead you can turn. 
If your Charisma score is average or low, it’s possible (but 
unusual) to roll fewer Hit Dice of undead turned than indicated on 
Table: 8–9 Turning Undead. For instance, 1 1st-level cleric with an 
average Charisma score could get a turning check result of 19 
(cleric’s level +3, or 4 HD), which is enough to turn a wight, but then 
roll only 3 on his turning damage roll—not enough to turn that 
wight after all. 
You may skip over already turned undead that are still within 
range, so that you do not waste your turning capacity on them. 
Effect and Duration of Turning:  Turned undead flee from you 
by the best and fastest means available to them. They flee for 10 
rounds (1 minute). If they cannot flee, they cower (giving any attack 
rolls against them a +2 bonus). If you approach within 10 feet of 
them, however, they overcome being turned and act normally. (You 
can stand within 10 feet without breaking the turning effect—you 
just can’t approach them.) You can attack them with ranged attacks 
(from at least 10 feet away), and others can attack them in any 
fashion, without breaking the turning effect. 
Destroying Undead: If you have twice as many levels (or more) 
as the undead have Hit Dice, you destroy any that you would 
normally turn. 
Table 8–9: Turning Undead 
Turning Check Most Powerful Undead 
 Result Affected (Maximum Hit Dice)  
 0 or lower Cleric’s level – 4 
 1–3 Cleric’s level – 3 
 4–6 Cleric’s level – 2 
 7–9 Cleric’s level – 1 
 10–12 Cleric’s level 
 13–15 Cleric’s level + 1 
 16–18 Cleric’s level + 2 
 19–21 Cleric’s level + 3 
22 or higher Cleric’s level + 4  
 
How Turning Works 
Jozan, the cleric, and his friends confront seven human zombies led 
by a wight. Calling on the power of Pelor, Jozan raises his sun disk 
and attempts to drive the undead away. 
First, he makes a turning check (1d20 + Cha modifier) to see what 
the most powerful undead creature is that he can turn in this action. 
His result is 9, so he can only turn undead that have fewer Hit Dice 
than he has levels. Jozan is 3rd level, so on this attempt, he can turn 
creatures with 2 Hit Dice (such as human zombies) or 1 Hit Die 
(such as human skeletons) but nothing with more than 2 Hit Dice 
(such as the wight, which has 4 HD). He does not have twice as 
many levels as either the zombies or wight, so he will not destroy 
any of them. 
Next, he rolls his turning damage (2d6 + Jozan’s level + Cha mod-
ifier) to see how many total Hit Dice of creatures he can turn. His 
result is 11, enough to turn the five closest zombies (accounting for 
10 HD out of the maximum of 11). The remaining two zombies and 
the wight are unaffected. 
On Jozan’s next turn, he attempts to turn undead again. This time, 
his turning check result is 21—enough to turn undead creatures of 
up to 6 HD (his level + 3). His turning damage roll is only 7, though, 
so he can only turn 7 HD worth of creatures. He turns the two 
nearest undead (the remaining 2 HD zombies), but the remaining 3 
HD worth of turning isn’t enough to turn the 4-HD wight. 
 
Evil Clerics and Undead 
Evil clerics channel negative energy to rebuke (awe) or command 
(control) undead rather than channeling positive energy to turn or 
destroy them. An evil cleric makes the equivalent of a turning 
check. Undead that would be turned are rebuked instead, and those 
that would be destroyed are commanded. 
Rebuked: A rebuked undead creature cowers as if in awe (attack 
rolls against the creature get a +2 bonus). The effect lasts 10 rounds. 
Commanded: A commanded undead creature is under the 
mental control of the evil cleric. The cleric must take a standard 
action to give mental orders to a commanded undead. At any one 
time, the cleric may command any number of undead whose total 
Hit Dice do not exceed his level. He may voluntarily relinquish 
command on any commanded undead creature or creatures in order 
to command new ones. 
Dispelling Turning: An evil cleric may channel negative energy 
to dispel a good cleric’s turning effect. The evil cleric makes a 
turning check as if attempting to rebuke the undead. If the turning 
check result is equal to or greater than the turning check result that 
the good cleric scored when turning the undead, then the undead 
are no longer turned. The evil cleric rolls turning damage of 2d6 + 
cleric level + Charisma modifier to see how many Hit Dice worth of 
undead he can affect in this way (as if he were rebuking them). 
Bolstering Undead:  An evil cleric may also bolster undead 
creatures against turning in advance. He makes a turning check as if 
attempting to rebuke the undead, but the Hit Dice result on Table 
8–9: Turning Undead becomes the undead creatures’ effective Hit 
Dice as far as turning is concerned (provided the result is higher 
than the creatures’ actual Hit Dice). The bolstering lasts 10 rounds. 
An evil undead cleric can bolster himself in this manner. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 