 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ourneying from place to place is as much a part of the 
game as combat or magic. This chapter covers carrying 
capacity and encumbrance, movement overland and 
through adventure sites, exploration, and treasure. 
 
CARRYING CAPACITY 
Encumbrance rules determine how much a character’s armor and 
equipment slow him or her down. Encumbrance comes in two parts: 
encumbrance by armor and encumbrance by total weight. 
Encumbrance by Armor:  A character’s armor (as described on 
Table 7–6: Armor and Shields, page 123) defines his or her 
maximum Dexterity bonus to AC, armor check penalty, speed, and 
running speed. Unless your character is weak or carrying a lot of 
gear, that’s all you need to know. The extra gear your character 
carries won’t slow him or her down any more than the armor already 
does. 
If your character is weak or carrying a lot of gear, however, then 
you’ll need to calculate encumbrance by weight. Doing so is most 
important when your character is trying to carry some heavy object. 
Weight: If you want to determine whether your character’s gear 
is heavy enough to slow him or her down more than the armor 
already does, total the weight of all the character’s items, including 
armor, weapons, and gear. Compare this total to the character’s 
Strength on Table 9–1: Carrying Capacity. Depending on how the 
weight compares to the character’s carrying capacity, he or she may 
be carrying a light, medium, or heavy load. Like armor, a character’s 
load affects his or her maximum Dexterity bonus to AC, carries a 
check penalty (which works like an armor check penalty), reduces 
the character’s speed, and affects how fast the character can run, as 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shown on Table 9–2: Carrying Loads. A medium or heavy load 
counts as medium or heavy armor for the purpose of abilities or 
skills that are restricted by armor. Carrying a light load does not 
encumber a character. 
If your character is wearing armor, use the worse figure (from 
armor or from load) for each category. Do not stack the 
penalties. 
For example, Tordek is wearing scale mail. As shown on 
Table 7–6: Armor and Shields, this armor cuts his maximum 
Dex bonus to AC to +3, and gives him a –4 armor check 
penalty (and cuts his speed to 15 feet, were he not a dwarf and 
thus able to move normally even when encumbered by armor 
or a load). The total weight of his gear, including armor, is 71-
1/2 pounds. Since Tordek has a Strength of 15, his maximum 
carrying capacity, or maximum load, is 200 pounds. A 
medium load for him is 67 pounds or more, and a heavy load 
is 134 pounds or more, so he is carrying a medium load. 
Looking at the medium load line on Table 9–2: Carrying 
Loads, his player sees that these figures are all equal to or 
less than the penalties that Tordek is already incurring for 
wearing scale mail, so he incurs no extra penalties. 
Mialee has a Strength of 10, and she’s carrying 28 
pounds of gear. Her light load limit is 33 pounds, so she’s 
carrying a light load (no penalties). She finds 500 gold 
pieces (weighing 10 pounds) and adds them to her load, so 
now she’s carrying a medium load. Doing so reduces her 
speed from 30 feet to 20 feet, gives her a –3 check penalty, 
and sets her maximum Dexterity bonus to AC at +3 (which 
is okay with her, since that’s her Dexterity bonus 
anyway). 
161