 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
efore setting out on a dangerous journey with her com-
panions, Mialee sits in her study and opens her spellbook. 
First she pages through it, selecting the spells that she 
thinks will be most useful on her adventure. When she has 
chosen the spells she wants (which could mean choosing 
the same spell more than once), she meditates on the pages that 
describe each one. The arcane symbols, which she has penned by 
hand, would be nonsense to anyone else, but they unlock power 
from her mind. As she concentrates, she all but finishes casting each 
spell that she prepares. Each spell now lacks only its final trigger. 
When she closes the book, her mind is full of spells, each of which 
she can complete at will in a brief time. 
A spell is a one-time magical effect. Spells come in two types: 
arcane (cat by bards, sorcerers, and wizards) and divine (cast by 
clerics, druids, and experienced paladins and rangers). Some 
spellcasters select their spells from a limited list of spells known, 
while others have access to a wide variety of options. Most spell-
casters prepare their spells in advance—whether from a spellbook 
or through devout prayers and meditation—while some cast spells 
spontaneously without preparation. Despite these different ways 
that characters use to learn or prepare their spells, when it comes to 
casting them, the spells are very much alike. 
Cutting across the categories of arcane and divine spells are the 
eight schools of magic. These schools represent the different ways 
that spells take effect. This chapter describes the differences 
between the eight schools of magic. In addition, it provides an 
overview of the spell description format, an extensive discussion of 
how spells work, information about what happens when magical 
effects combine, and an explanation of the differences between the 
kinds of special abilities, some of which are magical. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CASTING SPELLS 
Whether a spell is arcane or divine, and whether a character 
prepares spells in advance or chooses them on the spot, casting a 
spell works the same way. 
 
HOW DOES SPELLCASTING WORK? 
Spells operate in different ways depending on the type of spell 
you’re casting. Here are three basic examples. 
Charm Person:  Tordek is bullying some goblins into 
revealing the whereabouts of their camp when Mialee casts 
charm person  on one of them. The DM rolls a Will saving 
throw for the goblin against Mialee’s save DC of 13 for her 
1st-level spells, and the save fails. Mialee is a 1st-level wizard, 
so for the next hour the goblin regards her as his friend, and 
she gets the information out of him. 
Summon Monster I:  Lidda is fighting a hobgoblin, and 
Mialee casts summon monster I  to conjure a celestial dog. 
She can have the dog materialize in any location that she 
can see within 25 feet. She chooses to have it materialize 
on the opposite side of the hobgoblin from Lidda. One 
round later, when Mialee is finished casting the spell, the 
dog appears. It attacks immediately and gets a +2 bonus 
on its attack roll because it is flanking the hobgoblin. On 
Lidda’s next turn, she makes a sneak attack against the 
hobgoblin and kills it. The dog disappears at the start of 
Mialee’s next turn because summon monster I  lasts only 1 
round for a 1st-level caster. 
Burning Hands:  Mialee wants to cast burning hands  on 
some Small centipedes, and she wants to hit as many of 
169