 
 170 
them as she can. She moves to a spot that puts three centipedes 
within 15 feet of her, but none next to her, so they can’t attack her 
while she is casting casting. She chooses a direction and casts her 
spell. A cone of magical flame shoots out 15 feet, catching the three 
centipedes in its area. Mialee’s player rolls 1d4 to see how much 
damage each centipede takes and gets a result of 3. The DM makes a 
Reflex save (DC 13 for one of Mialee’s 1st-level spells) for each 
centipede, and only one succeeds. Two centipedes take 3 points of 
damage each and drop. The lucky one takes half damage (1 point) 
and survives. 
Casting a spell can be a straightforward process, such as when 
Jozan casts cure light wounds  to remove some of the damage that 
Tordek has taken, or it can be complicated, such as when Jozan is 
attempting to aim an insect plague by ear at a group of nagas who have 
hidden themselves in a deeper darkness spell, all the while avoiding 
the attacks of the nagas’ troglodyte servants. 
 
CHOOSING A SPELL 
First you must choose which spell to cast. If you’re a cleric, druid, 
experienced paladin, experienced ranger, or wizard, you select from 
among spells prepared earlier in the day and not yet cast (see Prepar-
ing Wizard Spells, page 177, and Preparing Divine Spells, page 179). 
If you’re a bard or sorcerer, you can select any spell you know, pro-
vided you are capable of casting spells of that level or higher. 
To cast a spell, you must be able to speak (if the spell has a verbal 
component), gesture (if it has a somatic component), and manipu-
late the material components or focus (if any). Additionally, you 
must concentrate to cast a spell—and it’s hard to concentrate in the 
head of battle. (See below for details.) 
If a spell has multiple versions, you choose which version to use 
when you cast it. You don’t have to prepare (or learn, in the case of a 
bard or sorcerer) a specific version of the spell. For example, resist 
energy protects a creature from fire, cold, or other energy types. You 
choose when you cast the spell which energy type it will protect the 
subject from. 
Once you’ve cast a prepared spell, you can’t cast it again until you 
prepare it again. (If you’ve prepared multiple copies of a single spell, 
you can cast each copy once.) If you’re a bard or sorcerer, casting a 
spell counts against your daily limit for spells of that spell level, but 
you can cast the same spell again if you haven’t reached your limit. 
 
CONCENTRATION 
To cast a spell, you must concentrate. If something interrupts your 
concentration while you’re casting, you must make a Concentration 
check or lose the spell. The more distracting the interruption and 
the higher the level of the spell you are trying to cast, the higher the 
DC is (More powerful spells require more mental effort.) If you fail 
the check, you lose the spell just as if you had cast it to no effect. 
Injury: Getting hurt or being affected by hostile magic while 
trying to cast a spell can break your concentration and ruin the spell. 
If while trying to cast a spell you take damage, you must make a 
Concentration check (DC 10 + points of damage taken + the level of 
the spell you’re casting). If you fail the check, you lose the spell 
without effect. The interrupting event strikes during spellcasting if 
it comes between when you start and when you complete a spell (for 
a spell with a casting time of 1 full round or more) or if it comes in 
response to your casting the spell (such as an attack of opportunity 
provoked by the spell or a contingent attack, such as a readied 
action). 
If you are taking continuous damage, such as from Melf’s acid 
arrow, half the damage is considered to take place while you are 
casting a spell. You must make a Concentration check (DC 10 + 1/2 
the damage that the continuous source last dealt + the level of the 
spell you’re casting). If the last damage dealt was the last damage 
that the effect could deal (such as the last round of a Melf’s acid 
arrow), then the damage is over, and it does not distract you. 
Repeated damage, such as from a spiritual weapon, does not count as 
continuous damage. 
Spell: If you are affected by a spell while attempting to cast a spell 
of your own, you must make a Concentration check or lose the spell 
you are casting. If the spell affecting you deals damage, the DC is 10 
+ points of damage + the level of the spell you’re casting. If the spell 
interferes with you or distracts you in some other way, the DC is the 
spell’s saving throw DC + the level of the spell you’re casting. For a 
spell with no saving throw, it’s the DC that the spell’s saving throw 
would have if a save were allowed. 
Grappling or Pinned:  The only spells you can cast while grap-
pling or pinned are those without somatic components and whose 
material components (if any) you have in hand. Even so, you must 
make a Concentration check (DC 20 + the level of the spell you’re 
casting) or lose the spell. 
Vigorous Motion: If you are riding on a moving mount, taking a 
bouncy ride in a wagon, on a small boat in rough water, below-decks 
in a storm-tossed ship, or simply being jostled in a similar fashion, 
you must make a Concentration check (DC 10 + the level of the spell 
you’re casting) or lose the spell. 
Violent Motion:  If you are on a galloping horse, taking a very 
rough ride in a wagon, on a small boat in rapids or in a storm, on 
deck in a storm-tossed ship, or being tossed roughly about in a 
similar fashion, you must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the 
level of the spell you’re casting) or lose the spell. 
Violent Weather: You must make a Concentration check if you 
try to cast a spell in violent weather. If you are in a high wind 
carrying blinding rain or sleet, the DC is 5 + the level of the spell 
you’re casting. If you are in wind-driven hail, dust, or debris, the DC 
is 10 + the level of the spell you’re casting. In either case, you lose 
the spell if you fail the Concentration check. If the weather is caused 
by a spell, use the rules in the Spell subsection above. 
Casting Defensively:  If you want to cast a spell without pro-
voking any attacks of opportunity, you need to dodge and weave. 
You must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the level of the 
spell you’re casting) to succeed. You lose the spell if you fail. 
Entangled: If you want to cast a spell while entangled in a net or 
by a tanglefoot bag (page 128) or while you’re affected by a spell with 
similar effects (such as entangle), you must make a DC 15 Concen-
tration check to cast the spell. You lose the spell if you fail. 
 
COUNTERSPELLS 
It is possible to cast any spell as a counterspell. By doing so, you are 
using the spell’s energy to disrupt the casting of the same spell by 
another character. Counterspelling works even if one spell is divine 
and the other arcane. 
How Counterspells Work:  To use a counterspell, you must 
select an opponent as the target of the counterspell. You do this by 
choosing the ready action (page 160). In doing so, you elect to wait 
to complete your action until your opponent tries to cast a spell. 
(You may still move your speed, since ready is a standard action.) 
If the target of your counterspell tries to cast a spell, make a 
Spellcraft check (DC 15 + the spell’s level). This check is a free 
action. If the check succeeds, you correctly identify the opponent’s 
spell and can attempt to counter it. If the check fails, you can’t do 
either of these things. 
To complete the action, you must then cast the correct spell. As a 
general rule, a spell can only counter itself. For example, a fireball 
spell is effective as a counter to another fireball spell, but not to any 
other spell, no matter how similar. Fireball cannot counter delayed 
blast fireball o r  v i c e  v e r s a .  I f  y o u  a r e  a b l e  t o  c a s t  t h e  s a m e  s p e l l  a n d  
you have it prepared (if you prepare spells), you cast it, altering it 
slightly to create a counterspell effect. If the target is within range, 
both spells automatically negate each other with no other results. 
Counterspelling Metamagic Spells:  Metamagic feats are not 
taken into account when determining whether a spell can be 
countered. For example, a normal fireball can counter a maximized 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 