 
 173
Creation: A creation spell manipulates matter to create an object 
or creature in the place the spellcaster designates (subject to the 
limits noted above). If the spell has a duration other than 
instantaneous, magic holds the creation together, and when the 
spell ends, the conjured creature or object vanishes without a trace. 
If the spell has an instantaneous duration, the created object or 
creature is merely assembled through magic. It lasts indefinitely and 
does not depend on magic for its existence. 
Healing: Certain divine conjurations heal creatures or even 
bring them back to life. These include cure spells. 
Summoning: A summoning spell instantly brings a creature or 
object to a place you designate. When the spell ends or is dispelled, a 
summoned creature is instantly sent back to where it came from, but 
a summoned object is not sent back unless the spell description 
specifically indicates this. A summoned creature also goes away if it 
is killed or if its hit points drop to 0 or lower. It is not really dead. It 
takes 24 hours for the creature to reform, during which time it can’t 
be summoned again. 
When the spell that summoned a creature ends and the creature 
disappears, all the spells it has cast expire. A summoned creature 
cannot use any innate summoning abilities it may have, and it 
refuses to cast any spells that would cost it XP, or to use any spell-
like abilities that would cost XP if they were spells. 
Teleportation: A teleportation spell transports one or more 
creatures or objects a great distance. The most powerful of these 
spells can cross planar boundaries. Unlike summoning spells, the 
transportation is (unless otherwise noted) one-way and not dis-
pellable. Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral 
Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation. 
 
Divination 
Divination spells enable you to learn secrets long forgotten, to 
predict the future, to find hidden things, and to foil deceptive spells. 
Representative spells include identify, detect thoughts , clairau-
dience/clairvoyance, and true seeing. 
Many divination spells have cone-shaped areas (see page 175). 
These move with you and extend in the direction you look. The 
cone defines the area that you can sweep each round. If you study 
the same area for multiple rounds, you can often gain additional 
information, as noted in the descriptive text for the spell. 
Scrying: A scrying spell creates an invisible magical sensor that 
sends you information. Unless noted otherwise, the sensor has the 
same powers of sensory acuity that you possess. This level of acuity 
includes any spells or effects that target you (such as darkvision or see 
invisibility), but not spells or effects that emanate from you (such as 
detect evil). However, the sensor is treated as a separate, independent 
sensory organ of yours, and thus it functions normally even if you 
have been blinded, deafened, or otherwise suffered sensory impair-
ment. Any creature with an Intelligence score of 12 or higher can 
notice the sensor by making a DC 20 Intelligence check. The sensor 
can be dispelled as if it were an active spell. 
Lead sheeting or magical protection (such as antimagic field, mind 
blank, or nondetection) blocks a scrying spell, and you sense that the 
spell is so blocked. 
 
Enchantment 
Enchantment spells affect the minds of others, influencing or 
controlling their behavior. Representative spells include charm 
person and suggestion. 
All enchantments are mind-affecting spells. Two types of 
enchantment spells grant you influence over a subject creature. 
Charm: A charm spell changes how the subject views you, typ-
ically making it see you as a good friend. 
Compulsion: A compulsion spell forces the subject to act in 
some manner or changes the way her mind works. Some compul-
sion spells determine the subject’s actions or the effects on the 
subject, some compulsion spells allow you to determine the subject’s 
actions when you cast the spell, and others give you ongoing control 
over the subject. 
 
Evocation 
Evocation spells manipulate energy or tap an unseen source of 
power to produce a desired end. In effect, they create something out 
of nothing. Many of these spells produce spectacular effects, and 
evocation spells can deal large amounts of damage. Representative 
spells include magic missile, fireball, and lightning bolt. 
 
Illusion 
Illusion spells deceive the senses or minds of others. They cause 
people to see things that are not there, not see things that are there, 
hear phantom noises, or remember things that never happened. 
Representative illusions include silent image , invisibility, and veil. 
Illusions come in five types: figments, glamers, patterns, phantasms, 
and shadows. 
Figment: A figment spell creates a false sensation. Those who 
perceive the figment perceive the same thing, not their own slightly 
different versions of the figment. (It is not a personalized mental 
impression.) Figments cannot make something seem to be 
something else. A figment that includes audible effects cannot 
duplicate intelligible speech unless the spell description specifically 
says it can. If intelligible speech is possible, it must be in a language 
you can speak. If you try to duplicate a language you cannot speak, 
the image produces gibberish. Likewise, you cannot make a visual 
copy of something unless you know what it looks like. 
Because figments and glamers (see below) are unreal, they cannot 
produce real effects the way that other types of illusions can. They 
cannot cause damage to objects or creatures, support weight, provide 
nutrition, or provide protection from the elements. Consequently, 
these spells are useful for confounding or delaying foes, but useless 
for attacking them directly. For example, it is possible to use a silent 
image spell to create an illusory cottage, but the cottage offers no 
protection from rain. 
A figment’s AC is equal to 10 + its size modifier. 
Glamer: A glamer spell changes a subject’s sensory qualities, 
making it look, feel, taste, smell, or sound like something else, or 
even seem to disappear. 
Pattern: Like a figment, a pattern spell creates an image that 
others can see, but a pattern also affects the minds of those who see 
it or are caught in it. All patterns are mind-affecting spells. 
Phantasm: A phantasm spell creates a mental image that usually 
only the caster and the subject (or subjects) of the spell can perceive. 
This impression is totally in the minds of the subjects. It is a 
personalized mental impression. (It’s all in their heads and not a fake 
picture or something that they actually see.) Third parties viewing or 
studying the scene don’t notice the phantasm. All phantasms are 
mind-affecting spells. 
Shadow: A shadow spell creates something that is partially real 
from extradimensional energy. Such illusions can have real effects. 
Damage dealt by a shadow illusion is real. 
Saving Throws and Illusions (Disbelief):  Creatures encoun-
tering an illusion usually do not receive saving throws to recognize 
it as illusory until they study it carefully or interact with it in some 
fashion. For example, if a party encounters a section of illusory floor, 
the character in the lead would receive a saving throw if she stopped 
and studied the floor or if she probed the floor. 
A successful saving throw against an illusion reveals it to be false, 
but a figment or phantasm remains as a translucent outline. For 
examples, a character making a successful saving throw against a 
figment of an illusory section of floor knows the “floor” isn’t safe to 
walk on and can see what lies below (light permitting), but he or she 
can still note where the figment lies. 
A failed saving throw indicates that a character fails to notice 
something is amiss. A character faced with proof that an illusion 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 