 
 174 
isn’t real needs no saving throw. A character who falls through a 
section of illusory floor into a pit knows something is amiss, as does 
one who spends a few rounds poking at the same illusion. If any 
viewer successfully disbelieves an illusion and communicates this 
fact to others, each such viewer gains a saving throw with a +4 
bonus. 
 
Necromancy 
Necromancy spells manipulate the power of death, unlife, and the 
life force. Spells involving undead creatures make up a large part of 
this school. Representative spells include cause fear, animate dead, and 
finger of death. 
 
Transmutation 
Transmutation spells change the properties of some creature, thing, 
or condition. Representative spells include enlarge person , reduce 
person, polymorph, and shapechange. 
 
[DESCRIPTOR] 
Appearing on the same line as the school and subschool, when 
applicable, is a descriptor that further categorizes the spell in some 
way. Some spells have more than one descriptor. 
The descriptors are acid, air, chaotic, cold, darkness, death, earth, 
electricity, evil, fear, fire, force, good, language-dependent, lawful, 
light, mind-affecting, sonic, and water. 
Most of these descriptors have no game effect by themselves, but 
they govern how the spell interacts with other spells, with special 
abilities, with unusual creatures, with alignment, and so on. 
A language-dependent spell uses intelligible language as a 
medium for communication. For instance, a cleric’s command spell 
fails if the target can’t understand what the cleric says, either 
because it doesn’t understand the language he is speaking or because 
background noise prevents it from hearing what the cleric says. 
A mind-affecting spell works only against creatures with an 
Intelligence score of 1 or higher. 
 
LEVEL 
The next line of a spell description gives the spell’s level, a number 
between 0 and 9 that defines the spell’s relative power. This number 
is preceded by an abbreviation for the class whose members can cast 
the spell. The Level entry also indicates whether a spell is a domain 
spell and, if so, what its domain and its level as a domain spell are. A 
spell’s level affects the DC for any save allowed against the effect. 
For example, the Level entry for hold person  i s  “ B r d  2 ,  C l r  2 ,  
Sor/Wiz 3.” That means it is a 2nd-level spell for bards, a 2nd-level 
spell for clerics, and a 3rd-level spell for sorcerers and wizards. The 
level entry for magic vestment  is “Clr 3, Strength 3, War 3.” That 
means it is a 3rd-level spell for clerics, the 3rd-level Strength domain 
spell, and the 3rd-level War domain spell. 
Names of spellcasting classes are abbreviated as follows: bard Brd; 
cleric Clr; druid Drd; paladin Pal; ranger Rgr; sorcerer Sor; wizard 
Wiz. 
The domains a spell can be associated with include Air, Animal, 
Chaos, Death, Destruction, Earth, Evil, Fire, Good, Healing, 
Knowledge, Law, Luck, Magic, Plant, Protection, Strength, Sun, 
Travel, Trickery, War, and Water. 
 
COMPONENTS 
A spell’s components are what you must do or possess to cast it. The 
Components entry in a spell description includes abbreviations that 
tell you what type of components it has. Specifics for material, focus, 
and XP components are given at the end of the descriptive text. 
Usually you don’t worry about components, but when you can’t use 
a component for some reason or when a material or focus com-
ponent is expensive, then the components are important. 
Verbal (V): A verbal component is a spoken incantation. To pro-
vide a verbal component, you must be able to speak in a strong voice. 
A silence spell or a gag spoils the incantation (and thus the spell). A 
spellcaster who has been deafened has a 20% chance to spoil any 
spell with a verbal component that he or she tries to cast. 
Somatic (S):  A somatic component is a measured and precise 
movement of the hand. You must have at least one hand free to 
provide a somatic component. 
Material (M):  A material component is one or more physical 
substances or objects that are annihilated by the spell energies in the 
casting process. Unless a cost is given for a material component, the 
cost is negligible. Don’t bother to keep track of material components 
with negligible cost. Assume you have all you need as long as you 
have your spell component pouch. 
Focus (F):  A focus component is a prop of some sort. Unlike a 
material component, a focus is not consumed when the spell is cast 
and can be reused. As with material components, the cost for a focus 
is negligible unless a price is given. Assume that focus components 
of negligible cost are in your spell component pouch. 
Divine Focus (DF):  A divine focus component is an item of 
spiritual significance. The divine focus for a cleric or a paladin is a 
holy symbol appropriate to the character’s faith. For an evil cleric, 
the divine focus is an unholy symbol. The default divine focus for a 
druid or a ranger is a sprig of mistletoe or holly. 
If the Components line includes F/DF or M/DF, the arcane ver-
sion of the spell has a focus component or a material component 
(the abbreviation before the slash) and the divine version has a 
divine focus component (the abbreviation after the slash). 
XP Cost (XP):  Some powerful spells (such as wish, commune, and 
miracle) entail an experience point cost to you. No spell, not even 
restoration, can restore the XP lost in this manner. You cannot spend 
so much XP that you lose a level, so you cannot cast the spell unless 
you have enough XP to spare. However, you may, on gaining 
enough XP to attain a new level, use those XP for casting a spell 
rather than keeping them and advancing a level. The XP are treated 
just like a material component—expended when you cast the spell, 
whether or not the casting succeeds. 
 
CASTING TIME 
Most spells have a casting time of 1 standard action. Others take 1 
round or more, while a few require only a free action. Chapter 8: 
Combat describes the difference between these types of actions. 
A spell that takes 1 round to cast is a full-round action. It comes 
into effect just before the beginning of your turn in the round after 
you began casting the spell. You then act normally after the spell is 
completed. 
A spell that takes 1 minute to cast comes into effect just before 
your turn 1 minute later (and for each of those 10 rounds, you are 
casting a spell as a full-round action, just as noted above for 1-round 
casting times). These actions must be consecutive and unin-
terrupted, or the spell automatically fails. 
When you begin a spell that takes 1 round or longer to cast, you 
must continue the concentration from the current round to just 
before your turn in the next round (at least). If you lose 
concentration before the casting is complete, you lose the spell. 
A spell with a casting time of 1 free action (such as feather fall ) 
doesn’t count against your normal limit of one spell per round. 
However, you may cast such a spell only once per round. Casting a 
spell with a casting time of 1 free action doesn’t provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 
You make all pertinent decisions about a spell (range, target, area, 
effect, version, and so forth) when the spell comes into effect. For 
example, when casting a summon monster spell, you need not decide 
where you want the monster to appear (or indeed, what monster you 
are summoning) until the spell comes into effect in the round after 
you begin casting. 
 
RANGE 
A spell’s range indicates how far from you it can reach, as defined in 
the Range entry of the spell description. A spell’s range is the 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 