 
 188 
MAGIC DOMAIN 
Deities: Boccob, Vecna, Wee Jas. 
Granted Power: Use scrolls, wands, and other devices with spell 
completion or spell trigger activation as a wizard of one-half your 
cleric level (at least 1st level). For the purpose of using a scroll or 
other magic device, if you are also a wizard, actual wizard levels and 
these effective wizard levels stack. 
 
Magic Domain Spells 
1 Nystul’s Magic Aura:  Alters object’s magic aura. 
2 Identify:  Determines properties of magic item. 
3 Dispel Magic:  Cancels magical spells and effects. 
4 Imbue with Spell Ability:  Transfer spells to subject. 
5 Spell Resistance:  Subject gains SR 12 + level. 
6 Antimagic Field:  Negates magic within 10 ft. 
7 Spell Turning:  Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. 
8 Protection from Spells M F: Confers +8 resistance bonus. 
9 Mordenkainen’s Disjunction:  Dispels magic, disenchants 
magic items. 
 
PLANT DOMAIN 
Deities: Ehlonna, Obad-Hai. 
Granted Powers: Rebuke or command plant creatures as an evil 
cleric rebukes or commands undead. Use this ability a total number 
of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted 
power is a supernatural ability. 
Add Knowledge (nature) to your list of cleric class skills. 
 
Plant Domain Spells 
1 Entangle:  Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius. 
2 Barkskin:  Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural armor. 
3 Plant Growth:  Grows vegetation, improves crops. 
4 Command Plants:  Sway the actions of one or more plant crea-
tures. 
5 Wall of Thorns:  Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass. 
6 Repel Wood:  Pushes away wooden objects. 
7 Animate Plants:  One or more trees animate and fight for you. 
8 Control Plants:  Control actions of one or more plant creatures. 
9 Shambler:  Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for you. 
 
PROTECTION DOMAIN 
Deities: Corellon Larethian, St. Cuthbert, Fharlanghn, Garl 
Glittergold, Moradin, Yondalla. 
Granted Power:  You can generate a protective ward  as a super-
natural ability. Grant someone you touch a resistance bonus equal to 
your cleric level on his or her next saving throw. Activating this 
power is a standard action. The protective ward is an abjuration effect 
with a duration of 1 hour that is usable once per day. 
 
Protection Domain Spells 
1 Sanctuary:  Opponents can’t attack you, and you can’t attack. 
2 Shield Other F: You take half of subject’s damage. 
3 Protection from Energy:  Absorb 12 points/level of damage 
from one kind of energy. 
4 Spell Immunity:  Subject is immune to one spell per four levels. 
5 Spell Resistance:  Subject gains SR 12 + level. 
6 Antimagic Field:  Negates magic within 10 ft. 
7 Repulsion:  Creatures can’t approach you. 
8 Mind Blank:  Subject is immune to mental/emotional magic and 
scrying. 
9 Prismatic Sphere:  As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all sides. 
 
 
STRENGTH DOMAIN 
Deities: St. Cuthbert, Gruumsh, Kord, Pelor. 
Granted Power:  You can perform a feat of strength as a super-
natural ability. You gain an enhancement bonus to Strength equal to 
your cleric level. Activating the power is a free action, the power 
lasts 1 round, and it is usable once per day. 
 
Strength Domain Spells 
1 Enlarge Person:  Humanoid creature doubles in size. 
2 Bull’s Strength:  Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level. 
3 Magic Vestment:  Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per 
four levels. 
4 Spell Immunity:  Subject is immune to one spell per four levels. 
5 Righteous Might:  Your size increases, and you gain combat 
bonuses. 
6 Stoneskin M: Ignore 10 points of damage per attack. 
7 Bigby’s Grasping Hand:  Large hand provides cover, pushes, or 
grapples. 
8 Bigby’s Clenched Fist:  Large hand provides cover, pushes, or 
attacks your foes. 
9 Bigby’s Crushing Hand:  Large hand provides cover, pushes, or 
crushes your foes. 
 
SUN DOMAIN 
Deities: Ehlonna, Pelor. 
Granted Power: Once per day, you can perform a greater turning 
against undead in place of a regular turning. The greater turning is 
like a normal turning except that the undead creatures that would 
be turned are destroyed instead. 
 
Sun Domain Spells 
1 Endure Elements:  Exist comfortably in hot or cold environ-
ments. 
2 Heat Metal:  Make metal so hot it damages those who touch it. 
3 Searing Light:  Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead. 
4 Fire Shield:  Creatures attacking you take fire damage; you’re 
protected from heat or cold. 
5 Flame Strike:  Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage). 
6 Fire Seeds:  Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. 
7 Sunbeam:  Beam blinds and deals 4d6 damage. 
8 Sunburst:  Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 6d6 damage. 
9 Prismatic Sphere:  As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all sides. 
 
TRAVEL DOMAIN 
Deity: Fharlanghn. 
Granted Powers: For a total time per day of 1 round per cleric 
level you possess, you can act normally regardless of magical effects 
that impede movement as if you were affected by the spell freedom of 
movement. This effect occurs automatically as soon as it applies, lasts 
until it runs out or is no longer needed, and can operate multiple 
times per day (up to the total daily limit of rounds). This granted 
power is a supernatural ability. 
Add Survival to your list of cleric class skills. 
 
Travel Domain Spells 
1 Longstrider:  Increases your speed. 
2 Locate Object:  Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
3 Fly:  Subject flies at speed of 60 ft. 
4 Dimension Door:  Teleports you short distance. 
5 Teleport:  Instantly transports you as far as 100 miles/level. 
6 Find the Path:  Shows most direct way to a location. 
7 Teleport, Greater:  As teleport, but no range limit and no off-target 
arrival. 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 