 
 206 
This transmutation makes a weapon strike 
true against evil foes. The weapon is 
treated as having a +1 enhancement bonus 
for the purpose of bypassing the damage 
reduction of evil creatures or striking evil 
incorporeal creatures (though the spell 
doesn’t grant an actual enhancement 
bonus). The weapon also becomes good, 
which means it can bypass the damage 
reduction of certain creatures, particularly 
evil outsiders. (This effect overrides and 
suppresses any other alignment the 
weapon might have.) Individual arrows or 
bolts can be transmuted, but affected 
projectile weapons (such as bows) don’t 
confer the benefit to the projectiles they 
shoot. 
In addition, all critical hit rolls against 
evil foes are automatically successful, so 
every threat is a critical hit. This last effect 
does not apply to any weapon that already 
has a magical effect related to critical hits, 
such as a keen weapon or a vorpal sword. 
 
Blight 
Necromancy 
Level: Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude half; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell withers a single plant of any size. 
An affected plant creature takes 1d6 points 
of damage per level (maximum 15d6) and 
may attempt a Fortitude saving throw for 
half damage. A plant that isn’t a creature 
(such as a tree or shrub) doesn’t receive a 
save and immediately withers and dies. 
This spell has no effect on the soil or 
surrounding plant life. 
 
Blindness/Deafness 
Necromancy 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: Permanent (D) 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You call upon the powers of unlife to 
render the subject blinded or deafened, as 
you choose. 
 
Blink 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Like a blink dog (see the Monster Manual), 
you “blink” back and forth between the 
Material Plane and the Ethereal Plane. You 
look as though you’re winking in and out 
of reality very quickly and at random. 
Blinking has several effects, as follows. 
Physical attacks against you have a 50% 
miss chance, and the Blind-Fight feat 
doesn’t help opponents, since you’re ethe-
real and not merely invisible. If the attack 
is capable of striking ethereal creatures, 
the miss chance is only 20% (for conceal-
ment). If the attacker can see invisible 
creatures, the miss chance is also only 20%. 
(For an attacker who can both see and 
strike ethereal creatures, there is no miss 
chance.) Likewise, your own attacks have a 
20% miss chance, since you sometimes go 
ethereal just as you are about to strike. 
Any individually targeted spell has a 
50% chance to fail against you while you’re 
blinking unless your attacker can target 
invisible, ethereal creatures. Your own 
spells have a 20% chance to activate just as 
you go ethereal, in which case they 
typically do not affect the Material Plane. 
While blinking, you take only half 
damage from area attacks (but full damage 
from those that extend onto the Ethereal 
Plane). You strike as an invisible creature 
(with a +2 bonus on attack rolls), denying 
your target any Dexterity bonus to AC. You 
take only half damage from falling, since 
you fall only while you are material. 
While blinking, you can step through 
(but not see through) solid objects. For 
each 5 feet of solid material you walk 
through, there is a 50% chance that you 
become material. If this occurs, you are 
shunted off to the nearest open space and 
take 1d6 points of damage per 5 feet so 
traveled. You can move at only three-quar-
ters speed (because movement on the 
Ethereal Plane is at half speed, and you 
spend about half your time there and half 
your time material.) 
Since you spend about half your time on 
the Ethereal Plane, you can see and even 
attack ethereal creatures. You interact with 
ethereal creatures roughly the same way 
you interact with material ones. For 
instance, your spells against ethereal 
creatures are 20% likely to activate just as 
you go material and be lost. 
An ethereal creature is invisible, incor-
poreal, and capable of moving in any 
direction, even up or down. As an incor-
poreal creature, you can move through 
solid objects, including living creatures. 
An ethereal creature can see and hear the 
Material Plane, but everything looks gray 
and insubstantial. Sight and hearing on the 
Material Plane are limited to 60 feet. Force 
effects (such as magic missile  and wall of 
force) and abjurations affect you normally. 
Their effects extend onto the Ethereal 
Plane from the Material Plane, but not vice 
versa. An ethereal creature can’t attack 
material creatures, and spells you cast 
while ethereal affect only other ethereal 
things. Certain material creatures or 
objects have attacks or effects that work on 
the Ethereal Plane (such as the basilisk and 
its gaze attack. Treat other ethereal 
creatures and objects as material. 
 
Blur 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 2,Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The subject’s outline appears blurred, 
shifting and wavering. This distortion 
grants the subject concealment (20% miss 
chance). 
A see invisibility spell does not counteract 
the blur effect, but a true seeing spell does. 
Opponents that cannot see the subject 
ignore the spell’s effect (though fighting 
an unseen opponent carries penalties of its 
own; see page 151). 
The subject of a blur spell. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 