 
 218 
This spell functions like sending, but the 
message can also contain a suggestion (see 
the suggestion spell), which the subject does 
its best to carry out. A successful Will save 
negates the suggestion effect but not the 
contact itself. The demand, if received, is 
understood even if the subject’s Intel-
ligence score is as low as 1. If the message 
is impossible or meaningless according to 
the circumstances that exist for the subject 
at the time the demand is issued, the 
message is understood but the suggestion is 
ineffective. 
The demand’s message to the creature 
must be twenty-five words or less, include-
ing the suggestion. The creature can also 
give a short reply immediately. 
Material Component:  A short piece of 
copper wire and some small part of the 
subject—a hair, a bit of nail, or the like. 
 
Desecrate 
Evocation [Evil] 
Level: Clr 2, Evil 2 
Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius emanation 
Duration: 2 hours/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell imbues an area with negative 
energy. Each Charisma check made to turn 
undead within this area takes a –3 profane 
penalty, and every undead creature 
entering a desecrated area gains a +1 profane 
bonus on attack rolls, damage rolls, and 
saving throws. An undead creature created 
within or summoned into such an area 
gains +1 hit points per HD. 
If the desecrated area contains an altar, 
shrine, or other permanent fixture dedi-
cated to your deity or aligned higher 
power, the modifiers given above are dou-
bled (–6 profane penalty on turning 
checks, +2 profane bonus and +2 hit points 
per HD for undead in the area). Further-
more, anyone who casts animate dead 
within this area may create as many as 
double the normal amount of undead (that 
is, 4 HD per caster level rather than 2 HD 
per caster level). 
If the area contains an altar, shrine, or 
other permanent fixture of a deity, pan-
theon, or higher power other than your 
patron, the desecrate spell instead curses the 
area, cutting off its connection with the 
associated deity or power. This secondary 
function, if used, does not also grant the 
bonuses and penalties relating to undead, 
as given above. 
Desecrate counters and dispels consecrate. 
Material Component:  A  v i a l  o f  u n h o l y  
water and 25 gp worth (5 pounds) of silver 
dust, all of which must be sprinkled 
around the area. 
Destruction 
Necromancy [Death] 
Level: Clr 7, Death 7 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell instantly slays the subject and 
consumes its remains (but not its equip-
ment and possessions) utterly. If the 
target’s Fortitude saving throw succeeds, it 
instead takes 10d6 points of damage. The 
only way to restore life to a character who 
has failed to save against this spell is to use 
true resurrection , a carefully worded wish 
spell followed by resurrection, or miracle. 
Focus: A special holy (or unholy) symbol 
of silver marked with verses of anathema 
(cost 500 gp). 
 
Detect Animals or Plants 
Divination 
Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: Cone-shaped emanation 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 
min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You can detect a particular kind of animal 
or plant in a cone emanating out from you 
in whatever direction you face. You must 
think of a kind of animal or plant when 
using the spell, but you can change the 
animal or plant kind each round. The 
amount of information revealed depends 
on how long you search a particular area or 
focus on a specific kind of animal or plant. 
1st Round:  Presence or absence of that 
kind of animal or plant in the area. 
2nd Round: Number of individuals of the 
specified kind in the area, and the 
condition of the healthiest specimen. 
3rd Round:  The condition (see below) 
and location of each individual present. If 
an animal or plant is outside your line of 
sight, then you discern its direction but 
not its exact location. 
Conditions: For purposes of this spell, the 
categories of condition are as follows: 
Normal: Has at least 90% of full normal 
hit points, free of disease. 
Fair: 30% to 90% of full normal hit points 
remaining. 
Poor: Less than 30% of full normal hit 
points remaining, afflicted with a disease, 
or suffering from a debilitating injury. 
Weak: 0 or fewer hit points remaining, 
afflicted with a disease in the terminal 
stage, or crippled. 
If a creature falls into more than one 
category, the spell indicates the weaker of 
the two. 
Each round you can turn to detect a 
kind of animal or plant in a new area. The 
spell can penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of 
stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin 
sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt 
blocks it. 
The DM decides if a specific kind of 
animal or plant is present. 
 
Detect Chaos 
Divination 
Level: Clr 1 
 
This spell functions like detect evil , except 
that it detects the auras of chaotic crea-
tures, clerics of chaotic deities, chaotic 
spells, and chaotic magic items, and you 
are vulnerable to an overwhelming chaotic 
aura if you are lawful. 
 
Detect Evil 
Divination 
Level: Clr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 
Area: Cone-shaped emanation 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 min./ 
level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You can sense the presence of evil. The 
amount of information revealed depends 
on how long you study a particular area or 
subject. 
1st Round: Presence or absence of evil. 
2nd Round:  Number of evil auras (crea-
tures, objects, or spells) in the area and the 
power of the most potent evil aura present. 
If you are of good alignment, and the 
strongest evil aura’s power is overwhelm-
ing (see below), and the HD or level of the 
aura’s source is at least twice your character 
level, you are stunned for 1 round and the 
spell ends. 
3rd Round:  The power and location of 
each aura. If an aura is outside your line of 
sight, then you discern its direction but 
not its exact location. 
Aura Power:  An evil aura’s power de-
pends on the type of evil creature or object 
that you’re detecting and its HD, caster 
level, or (in the case of a cleric) class level; 
see the accompanying table. If an aura falls 
into more than one strength category, the 
spell indicates the stronger of the two. 
For example, as indicated on the table, 
an evil outsider with 12 HD has an over-
whelming aura of evil. A good cleric who 
casts this spell and directs it at the location 
of such a creature for longer than 1 round 
loses the spell and is stunned for 1 round if 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 