 
 222 
Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 
round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Each round, you concentrate on one sub-
ject, who must be within range. You know 
if the subject deliberately and knowingly 
speaks a lie by discerning disturbances in 
its aura caused by lying. The spell does not 
reveal the truth, uncover unintentional 
inaccuracies, or necessarily reveal evasions. 
Each round, you may concentrate on a 
different subject. 
 
Discern Location 
Divination 
Level: Clr 8, Knowledge 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Unlimited 
Target: One creature or object 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
A discern location  spell is among the most 
powerful means of locating creatures or 
objects. Nothing short of a mind blank spell 
or the direct intervention of a deity keeps 
you from learning the exact location of a 
single individual or object. Discern location  
circumvents normal means of protection 
from scrying or location. The spell reveals 
the name of the creature or object’s 
location (place, name, business name, 
building name, or the like), community, 
county (or similar political division), 
country, continent, and the plane of 
existence where the target lies. 
To find a creature with the spell, you 
must have seen the creature or have some 
item that once belonged to it. To find an 
object, you must have touched it at least 
once. 
 
Disguise Self 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1, Trickery 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
 
You make yourself—including clothing, 
armor, weapons, and equipment—look 
different. You can seem 1 foot shorter or 
taller, thin, fat, or in between. You cannot 
change your body type. For example, a hu-
man caster could look human, humanoid, 
or like any other human-shaped bipedal 
creature. Otherwise, the extent of the 
apparent change is up to you. You could 
add or obscure a minor feature or look like 
an entirely different person. 
The spell does not provide the abilities 
or mannerisms of the chosen form, nor 
does it alter the perceived tactile (touch) or 
audible (sound) properties of you or your 
equipment.  A battleaxe made to look like a 
dagger still functions as a battleaxe. 
If you use this spell to create a disguise, 
you get a +10 bonus on the Disguise check. 
A creature that interacts with the glamer 
gets a Will save to recognize it as an 
illusion. For example, a creature that 
touched you and realized that the tactile 
sensation did not match the visual one 
would be entitled to such a save. 
 
Disintegrate 
Transmutation 
Level: Destruction 7, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Ray 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A thin, green ray springs from your point-
ing finger. You must make a successful 
ranged touch attack to hit. Any creature 
struck by the ray takes 2d6 points of 
damage per caster level (to a maximum of 
40d6). Any creature reduced to 0 or fewer 
hit points by this spell is entirely disinte-
grated, leaving behind only a trace of fine 
dust. A disintegrated creature’s equipment 
is unaffected. 
When used against an object, the ray 
simply disintegrates as much as one 10- 
foot cube of nonliving matter. Thus, the 
spell disintegrates only part of any very 
large object or structure targeted. The ray 
affects even objects constructed entirely of 
force, such as Bigby’s forceful hand  or a wall 
of force , but not magical effects such as a 
globe of invulnerability or an antimagic field. 
A creature or object that makes a suc-
cessful Fortitude save is partially affected, 
taking only 5d6 points of damage. If this 
damage reduces the creature or object to 0 
or fewer hit points, it is entirely disinte-
grated. 
Only the first creature or object struck 
can be affected; that is, the ray affects only 
one target per casting. 
Arcane Material Component:  A lodestone 
and a pinch of dust. 
 
Dismissal 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
 
Target: One extraplanar creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell forces an extraplanar creature 
back to its proper plane if it fails a special 
Will save (DC = spell’s save DC – creature’s 
HD + your caster level). If the spell is 
successful, the creature is instantly 
whisked away, but there is a 20% chance of 
actually sending the subject to a plane 
other than its own. 
 
Dispel Chaos 
Abjuration [Lawful] 
Level: Clr 5, Law 5, Pal 4 
 
This spell functions like dispel evil , except 
that you are surrounded by constant, blue, 
lawful energy, and the spell affects chaotic 
creatures and spells rather than evil ones. 
 
Dispel Evil 
Abjuration [Good] 
Level: Clr 5, Good 5, Pal 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target or Targets: You and a touched evil 
creature from another plane; or you and 
an enchantment or evil spell on a 
touched creature or object 
Duration: 1 round/level or until 
discharged, whichever comes first 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: See text 
 
Shimmering, white, holy energy sur-
rounds you. This power has three effects. 
First, you gain a +4 deflection bonus to 
AC against attacks by evil creatures. 
Second, on making a successful melee 
touch attack against an evil creature from 
another plane, you can choose to drive that 
creature back to its home plane. The 
creature can negate the effects with a suc-
cessful Will save (spell resistance applies). 
This use discharges and ends the spell. 
Third, with a touch you can automati-
cally dispel any one enchantment spell 
cast by an evil creature or any one evil 
spell. Exception: Spells that can’t be dis-
pelled by dispel magic also can’t be dispelled 
by dispel evil . Saving throws and spell 
resistance do not apply to this effect. This 
use discharges and ends the spell. 
 
Dispel Good 
Abjuration [Evil] 
Level: Clr 5, Evil 5 
 
This spell functions like dispel evil , except 
that you are surrounded by dark, wavering, 
unholy energy, and the spell affects good 
creatures and spells rather than evil ones. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 