 
 225
If you don’t spend at least 1 round con-
centrating on the spell each day, the sub-
ject receives a new saving throw to throw 
off the domination. 
Protection from evil  or a similar spell can 
prevent you from exercising control or 
using the telepathic link while the subject 
is so warded, but such an effect neither 
prevents the establishment of domination 
nor dispels it. 
 
Doom 
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell fills a single subject with a feel-
ing of horrible dread that causes it to 
become shaken. 
 
Drawmij’s Instant Summons 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Target: One object weighing 10 lb. or 
less whose longest dimension is 6 ft. 
or less 
Duration: Permanent until discharged 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You call some nonliving item from virtu-
ally any location directly to your hand. 
First, you must place your arcane mark  
(page 201) on the item. Then you cast this 
spell, which magically and invisibly 
inscribes the name of the item on a sap-
phire worth at least 1,000 gp. Thereafter, 
you can summon the item by speaking a 
special word (set by you when the spell is 
cast) and crushing the gem. The item 
appears instantly in your hand. Only you 
can use the gem in this way. 
If the item is in the possession of 
another creature, the spell does not work, 
but you know who the possessor is and 
roughly where that creature is located 
when the summons occurs. 
The inscription on the gem is invisible. 
It is also unreadable, except by means of a 
read magic spell, to anyone but you. 
The item can be summoned from an-
other plane, but only if no other creature 
has claimed ownership of it. 
Material Component: A sapphire worth at 
least 1,000 gp. 
 
 
 
Dream 
Illusion (Phantasm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Unlimited 
Target: One living creature touched 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You, or a messenger touched by you, sends 
a phantasmal message to others in the 
form of a dream. At the beginning of the 
spell, you must name the recipient or 
identify him or her by some title that 
leaves no doubt as to identity. The mes-
senger then enters a trance, appears in the 
intended recipient’s dream, and delivers 
the message. The message can be of any 
length, and the recipient remembers it 
perfectly upon waking. The communi-
cation is one-way. The recipient cannot ask 
questions or offer information, nor can the 
messenger gain any information by 
observing the dreams of the recipient. 
Once the message is delivered, the mes-
senger’s mind returns instantly to its body. 
The duration of the spell is the time 
required for the messenger to enter the 
recipient’s dream and deliver the message. 
If the recipient is awake when the spell 
begins, the messenger can choose to wake 
up (ending the spell) or remain in the 
trance. The messenger can remain in the 
trance until the recipient goes to sleep, 
then enter the recipient’s dream and de-
liver the message as normal. A messenger 
that is disturbed during the trance comes 
awake, ending the spell. 
Creatures who don’t sleep (such as elves, 
but not half-elves) or don’t dream cannot 
be contacted by this spell. 
The messenger is unaware of its own 
surroundings or of the activities around it 
while in the trance. It is defenseless both 
physically and mentally (always fails any 
saving throw) while in the trance. 
 
Eagle’s Splendor 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Pal 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The transmuted creature becomes more 
poised, articulate, and personally forceful. 
The spell grants a +4 enhancement bonus 
to Charisma, adding the usual benefits to 
Charisma-based skill checks and other uses 
of the Charisma modifier. Sorcerers and 
bards (and other spellcasters who rely on 
Charisma) affected by this spell do not 
gain any additional bonus spells for the 
increased Charisma, but the save DCs for 
spells they cast while under this spell’s 
effect do increase. 
Arcane Material Component:  A few feath-
ers or a pinch of droppings from an eagle. 
 
Eagle’s Splendor, Mass 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
 
This spell functions like eagle’s splendor , 
except that it affects multiple creatures. 
 
Earthquake 
Evocation [Earth] 
Level: Clr 8, Destruction 8, Drd 8, Earth 7 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: 80-ft.-radius spread (S) 
Duration: 1 round 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
When you cast earthquake, an intense but 
highly localized tremor rips the ground. 
The shock knocks creatures down, col-
lapses structures, opens cracks in the 
ground, and more. The effect lasts for 1 
round, during which time creatures on the 
ground can’t move or attack. A spellcaster 
on the ground must make a Concentration 
check (DC 20 + spell level) or lose any spell 
he or she tries to cast. The earthquake 
affects all terrain, vegetation, structures, 
and creatures in the area. The specific 
effect of an earthquake spell depends on the 
nature of the terrain where it is cast. 
Cave, Cavern, or Tunnel:  The spell col-
lapses the roof, dealing 8d6 points of blud-
geoning damage to any creature caught 
under the cave-in (Reflex DC 15 half ) and 
pinning that creature beneath the rubble 
(see below). An earthquake cast on the roof 
of a very large cavern could also endanger 
those outside the actual area but below the 
falling debris. 
Cliffs: Earthquake causes a cliff to crum-
ble, creating a landslide that travels hori-
zontally as far as it fell vertically. An earth-
quake cast at the top of a 100-foot cliff 
would sweep debris 100 feet outward from 
the base of the cliff. Any creature in the 
path takes 8d6 points of bludgeoning 
damage (Reflex DC 15 half ) and is pinned 
beneath the rubble (see below). 
Open Ground:  Each creature standing in 
the area must make a DC 15 Reflex save or 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 