 
 227
spell cannot be used to crush a creature by 
increasing its size. 
All equipment worn or carried by a 
creature is similarly enlarged by the spell. 
Melee and projectile weapons affected by 
this spell deal more damage (see Table 2–2 
in the Dungeon Master’s Guide ). Other mag-
ical properties are not affected by this 
spell. Any enlarged item that leaves an 
enlarged creature’s possession (including a 
projectile or thrown weapon) instantly 
returns to its normal size. This means that 
thrown weapons deal their normal 
damage, and projectiles deal damage based 
on the size of the weapon that fired them. 
Magical properties of enlarged items are not 
increased by this spell—an enlarged +1 
sword still has only a +1 enhancement 
bonus, a staff-sized wand is still only 
capable of its normal functions, a giant-
sized potion merely requires a greater fluid 
intake to make its magical effects operate, 
and so on. 
Multiple magical effects that increase 
size do not stack, which means (among 
other things) that you can’t use a second 
casting of this spell to further increase the 
size of a humanoid that’s still under the 
effect of the first casting. 
Enlarge person  counters and dispels 
reduce person. 
Enlarge person  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 
Material Component:  A pinch of pow-
dered iron. 
 
Enlarge Person, Mass 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Target: One humanoid creature/level, no 
two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart 
 
This spell functions like enlarge person , 
except that it affects multiple creatures. 
 
Entangle 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 1, Plant 1, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: Plants in a 40-ft.-radius spread 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Reflex partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Grasses, weeds, bushes, and even trees 
wrap, twist, and entwine about creatures in 
the area or those that enter the area, 
holding them fast and causing them to 
become entangled. The creature can break 
free and move half its normal speed by 
using a full-round action to make a DC 20 
Strength check or a DC 20 Escape Artist 
check. A creature that succeeds on a Reflex 
save is not entangled but can still move at 
only half speed through the area. Each 
round on your turn, the plants once again 
attempt to entangle all creatures that have 
avoided or escaped entanglement. 
Note: The DM may alter the effects of 
the spell somewhat, based on the nature of 
the entangling plants. 
 
Enthrall 
Enchantment (Charm) [Language 
Dependent, Mind-Affecting, Sonic] 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: Any number of creatures 
Duration: 1 hour or less 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
If you have the attention of a group of 
creatures, you can use this spell to hold 
them spellbound. To cast the spell, you 
must speak or sing without interruption 
for 1 full round. Thereafter, those affected 
give you their undivided attention, ignor-
ing their surroundings. They are consid-
ered to have an attitude of friendly while 
under the effect of the spell (see the Dun-
geon Master’s Guide  for information about 
NPC attitudes). Any potentially affected 
creature of a race or religion unfriendly to 
yours gets a +4 bonus on the saving throw. 
A creature with 4 or more HD or with a 
Wisdom score of 16 or higher remains 
aware of its surroundings and has an atti-
tude of indifferent. It gains a new saving 
throw if it witnesses actions that it 
opposes. 
The effect lasts as long as you speak or 
sing, to a maximum of 1 hour. Those 
enthralled b y  y o u r  w o r d s  t a k e  n o  a c t i o n  
while you speak or sing and for 1d3 rounds 
thereafter while they discuss the topic or 
performance. Those entering the area 
during the performance must also 
successfully save or become enthralled. The 
speech ends (but the 1d3-round delay still 
applies) if you lose concentration or do 
anything other than speak or sing. 
If those not enthralled have unfriendly 
or hostile attitudes toward you, they can 
collectively make a Charisma check to try 
to end the spell by jeering and heckling. 
For this check, use the Charisma bonus of 
the creature with the highest Charisma in 
the group; others may make Charisma 
checks to assist (as described in Aid 
Another, page 65). The heckling ends the 
spell if this check result beats your 
Charisma check result. Only one such 
challenge is allowed per use of the spell. 
If any member of the audience is at-
tacked or subjected to some other overtly 
hostile act, the spell ends and the previ-
ously enthralled members become imme-
diately unfriendly toward you. Each crea-
ture with 4 or more HD or with a Wisdom 
score of 16 or higher becomes hostile. 
 
Entropic Shield 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 1, Luck 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
 
A magical field appears around you, glow-
ing with a chaotic blast of multicolored 
hues. This field deflects incoming arrows, 
rays, and other ranged attacks. Each ranged 
attack directed at you for which the 
attacker must make an attack roll (in-
cluding arrows, magic arrows, Melf’s acid 
arrow, ray of enfeeblement, and so forth) has a 
20% miss chance (similar to the effects of 
concealment). Other attacks that simply 
work at a distance, such as a dragon’s 
breath weapon, are not affected. 
 
Erase 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One scroll or two pages 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Erase removes writings of either magical or 
mundane nature from a scroll or from one 
or two pages of paper, parchment, or 
similar surfaces. With this spell, you can 
remove explosive runes, a glyph of warding , a 
sepia snake sigil , or an arcane mark , but not 
illusory script  or a symbol spell. Nonmagical 
writing is automatically erased if you touch 
it and no one else is holding it. Otherwise, 
the chance of erasing nonmagical writing 
is 90%. 
Magic writing must be touched to be 
erased, and you also must succeed on a 
caster level check (1d20 + caster level) 
against DC 15. (A natural 1 or 2 is always a 
failure on this check.) If you fail to erase 
explosive runes , a glyph of warding , or a sepia 
snake sigil , you accidentally activate that 
writing instead. 
 
Ethereal Jaunt 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
 
You become ethereal, along with your 
equipment. For the duration of the spell, 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 