 
 230 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
If the target creature fails a Will saving 
throw, its Intelligence and Charisma 
scores each drop to 1, giving it roughly the 
intellect of a lizard. The affected creature is 
unable to use Intelligence- or Charisma-
based skills, cast spells, understand 
language, or communicate coherently. 
Still, it knows who its friends are and can 
follow them and even protect them. The 
subject remains in this state until a heal, 
limited wish, miracle, or wish spell is used to 
cancel the effect of the feeblemind. A 
creature that can cast arcane spells, such as 
a sorcerer or a wizard, takes a –4 penalty on 
its saving throw. 
Material Component:  A handful of clay, 
crystal, glass, or mineral spheres. 
 
Find the Path 
Divination 
Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Drd 6, Knowledge 6, 
Travel 6 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 3 rounds 
Range: Personal or touch 
Target: You or creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless) 
 
The recipient of this spell can find the 
shortest, most direct physical route to a 
specified destination, be it the way into or 
out of a locale. The locale can be outdoors, 
underground, or even inside a maze spell. 
Find the path  works with respect to lo-
cations, not objects or creatures at a locale. 
Thus, the subject could not find the way to 
“a forest where a green dragon lives” or “a 
hoard of platinum pieces,” but it could find 
the exit to a labyrinth. The location must 
be on the same plane as you are at the time 
of casting. 
The spell enables the subject to sense 
the correct direction that will eventually 
lead it to its destination, indicating at ap-
propriate times the exact path to follow or 
physical actions to take. For example, the 
spell enables the subject to sense trip wires 
or the proper word to bypass a glyph of 
warding. The spell ends when the desti-
nation is reached or the duration expires, 
whichever comes first. Find the path can be 
used to remove the subject and its com-
panions from the effect of a maze spell in a 
single round. 
This divination is keyed to the recipient, 
not its companions, and its effect does not 
predict or allow for the actions of creatures 
(including guardians). 
Focus: A set of divination counters of the 
sort you favor—bones, ivory counters, 
sticks, carved runes, or the like. 
Find Traps 
Divination 
Level: Clr 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level 
 
You gain intuitive insight into the work-
ings of traps. You can use the Search skill 
to detect traps just as a rogue can. In addi-
tion, you gain an insight bonus equal to 
one-half your caster level (maximum +10) 
on Search checks made to find traps while 
the spell is in effect. 
Note that find traps  grants no ability to 
disable the traps that you may find. 
 
Finger of Death 
Necromancy [Death] 
Level: Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You can slay any one living creature within 
range. The target is entitled to a Fortitude 
saving throw to survive the attack. If the 
save is successful, the creature instead 
takes 3d6 points of damage +1 point per 
caster level (maximum +25). The subject 
might die from damage even if it succeeds 
on its saving throw. 
 
Fire Seeds 
Conjuration (Creation) [Fire] 
Level: Drd 6, Fire 6, Sun 6 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: Up to four touched acorns or up 
to eight touched holly berries 
Duration: 10 min./level or until used 
Saving Throw: None or Reflex half; see 
text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Depending on the version of fire seeds you 
choose, you turn acorns into splash 
weapons that you or another character can 
throw, or you turn holly berries into 
bombs that you can detonate on command. 
Acorn Grenades:  As many as four acorns 
turn into special splash weapons that can 
be hurled as far as 100 feet. A ranged touch 
attack roll is required to strike the 
intended target. Together, the acorns are 
capable of dealing 1d6 points of fire 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d6), 
divided up among the acorns as you wish. 
For example, a 20th-level druid could 
create one 20d6 missile, two 10d6 missiles, 
one 11d6 and three 3d6 missiles, or any 
other combination totalling up to four 
acorns and 20d6 points of damage. 
Each acorn explodes upon striking any 
hard surface. In addition to its regular fire 
damage, it deals 1 point of splash damage 
per die, and it ignites any combustible 
materials within 10 feet. A creature within 
this area that makes a successful Reflex 
saving throw takes only half damage; a 
creature struck directly is not allowed a 
saving throw. 
Holly Berry Bombs:  You turn as many as 
eight holly berries into special bombs. The 
holly berries are usually placed by hand, 
since they are too light to make effective 
thrown weapons (they can be tossed only 5 
feet). If you are within 200 feet and speak a 
word of command, each berry instantly 
bursts into flame, causing 1d8 points of 
fire damage +1 point per caster level to 
every creature in a 5-foot-radius burst and 
igniting any combustible materials within 
5 feet. A creature in the area that makes a 
successful Reflex saving throw takes only 
half damage. 
Material Component:  The acorns or holly 
berries. 
 
Fire Shield 
Evocation [Fire or Cold] 
Level: Fire 5, Sor/Wiz 4, Sun 4 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
 
This spell wreathes you in flame and 
causes damage to each creature that attacks 
you in melee. The flames also protect you 
from either cold-based or fire-based attacks 
(your choice). 
Any creature striking you with its body 
or a handheld weapon deals normal 
damage, but at the same time the attacker 
takes 1d6 points of damage +1 point per 
caster level (maximum +15). This damage 
is either cold damage (if the shield protects 
against fire-based attacks) or fire damage (if 
the shield protects against cold-based 
attacks). If the attacker has spell resistance, 
it applies to this effect. Creatures wielding 
weapons with exceptional reach are not 
subject to this damage if they attack you. 
When casting this spell, you appear to 
immolate yourself, but the flames are thin 
and wispy, giving off light equal to only 
half the illumination of a normal torch (10 
feet). The color of the flames is determined 
randomly (50% chance of either color)—
blue or green if the chill shield is cast, violet 
or blue if the warm shield is employed. The 
special powers of each version are as 
follows. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 