 
 233
recent effect stops at the boundary of the 
older effect. 
Material Component: A sprinkling of holy 
water and rare incenses worth at least 
1,500 gp, plus 1,500 gp per 60-foot cube. If 
a password is desired, this requires the 
burning of additional rare incenses worth 
at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 gp per 60-foot 
cube. 
 
Forcecage 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: Barred cage (20-ft. cube) or 
windowless cell (10-ft. cube) 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This powerful spell brings into being an 
immobile, invisible cubical prison com-
posed of either bars of force or solid walls 
of force (your choice). 
Creatures within the area are caught and 
contained unless they are too big to fit 
inside, in which case the spell automat-
ically fails. Teleportation and other forms 
of astral travel provide a means of escape, 
but the force walls or bars extend into the 
Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel. 
Like a wall of force spell, a forcecage resists 
dispel magic, but it is vulnerable to a disinte-
grate spell, and it can be destroyed by a 
sphere of annihilation or a rod of cancellation. 
Barred Cage:  This version of the spell 
produces a 20-foot cube made of bands of 
force (similar to a wall of force  spell) for 
bars. The bands are a half-inch wide, with 
half-inch gaps between them. Any creature 
capable of passing through such a small 
space can escape; others are confined. You 
can’t attack a creature in a barred cage with 
a weapon unless the weapon can fit 
between the gaps. Even against such 
weapons (including arrows and similar 
ranged attacks), a creature in the barred 
cage has cover. All spells and breath 
weapons can pass through the gaps in the 
bars. 
Windowless Cell: This version of the spell 
produces a 10-foot cube with no way in 
and no way out. Solid walls of force form 
its six sides. 
Material Component:  R u b y  d u s t  w o r t h  
1,500 gp, which is tossed into the air and 
disappears when you cast the spell. 
 
Foresight 
Divination 
Level: Drd 9, Knowledge 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or touch 
Target: See text 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless) 
 
This spell grants you a powerful sixth 
sense in relation to yourself or another. 
Once foresight is cast, you receive instan-
taneous warnings of impending danger or 
harm to the subject of the spell. Thus, if 
you are the subject of the spell, you would 
be warned in advance if a rogue were about 
to attempt a sneak attack on you, or if a 
creature were about to leap out from a 
hiding place, or if an attacker were 
specifically targeting you with a spell or 
ranged weapon. You are never surprised or 
flat-footed. In addition, the spell gives you 
a general idea of what action you might 
take to best protect yourself—duck, jump 
right, close your eyes, and so on—and 
gives you a +2 insight bonus to AC and 
Reflex saves. This insight bonus is lost 
whenever you would lose a Dexterity 
bonus to AC. 
When another creature is the subject of 
the spell, you receive warnings about that 
creature. You must communicate what you 
learn to the other creature for the warning 
to be useful, and the creature can be 
caught unprepared in the absence of such 
a warning. Shouting a warning, yanking a 
person back, and even telepathically 
communicating (via an appropriate spell) 
can all be accomplished before some 
danger befalls the subject, provided you act 
on the warning without delay. The subject, 
however, does not gain the insight bonus 
to AC and Reflex saves. 
Arcane Material Component:  A hum-
mingbird’s feather. 
 
Fox’s Cunning 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The transmuted creature becomes smarter. 
The spell grants a +4 enhancement bonus 
to Intelligence, adding the usual benefits 
to Intelligence-based skill checks and 
other uses of the Intelligence modifier. 
Wizards (and other spellcasters who rely 
on Intelligence) affected by this spell do 
not gain any additional bonus spells for the 
increased Intelligence, but the save DCs 
for spells they cast while under this spell’s 
effect do increase. This spell doesn’t grant 
extra skill points. 
Arcane Material Component:  A few hairs, 
or a pinch of dung, from a fox. 
 
Fox’s Cunning, Mass 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
 
This spell functions like fox’s cunning , 
except that it affects multiple creatures. 
 
Freedom 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) or see 
text 
Target: One creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The subject is freed from spells and effects 
that restrict its movement, including 
binding, entangle, grappling, imprisonment, 
maze, paralysis, petrification, pinning, sleep, 
slow, stunning, temporal stasis , and web. To 
free a creature from imprisonment or maze, 
you must know its name and background, 
and you must cast this spell at the spot 
where it was entombed or banished into 
the maze. 
 
Freedom of Movement 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 4, Luck 4, Rgr 4 
Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or touch 
Target: You or creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
This spell enables you or a creature you 
touch to move and attack normally for the 
duration of the spell, even under the 
influence of magic that usually impedes 
movement, such as paralysis, solid fog, slow, 
and web. The subject automatically suc-
ceeds on any grapple check made to resist 
a grapple attempt, as well as on grapple 
checks or Escape Artist checks made to 
escape a grapple or a pin. 
The spell also allows the subject to move 
and attack normally while underwater, 
even with slashing weapons such as axes 
and swords or with bludgeoning weapons 
such as flails, hammers, and maces, 
provided that the weapon is wielded in the 
hand rather than hurled. The freedom of 
movement spell does not, however, allow 
water breathing. 
Material Component:  A leather thong, 
bound around the arm or a similar 
appendage. 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 