 
 237
Material Component:  You trace the glyph 
with incense, which must first be sprin-
kled with powdered diamond worth at 
least 200 gp. 
 
Glyph of Warding, Greater 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 6 
 
This spell functions like glyph of warding , 
except that a greater blast glyph  deals up to 
10d8 points of damage, and a greater spell 
glyph can store a spell of 6th level or lower. 
Material Component:  You trace the glyph 
with incense, which must first be sprin-
kled with powdered diamond worth at 
least 400 gp. 
 
Goodberry 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: 2d4 fresh berries touched 
Duration: One day/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Casting goodberry upon a handful of freshly 
picked berries makes 2d4 of them magical. 
You (as well as any other druid of 3rd or 
higher level) can immediately discern 
which berries are affected. Each trans-
muted berry provides nourishment as if it 
were a normal meal for a Medium creature. 
The berry also cures 1 point of damage 
when eaten, subject to a maximum of 8 
p o i n t s  o f  s u c h  c u r i n g  i n  a n y  2 4 - h o u r  
period. 
 
Good Hope 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One living creature/level, no two 
of which may be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
This spell instills powerful hope in the 
subjects. Each affected creature gains a +2 
morale bonus on saving throws, attack 
rolls, ability checks, skill checks, and 
weapon damage rolls. 
Good hope  counters and dispels crushing 
despair. 
 
Grease 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target or Area: One object or a 10-ft. 
square 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
A grease spell covers a solid surface with a 
layer of slippery grease. Any creature in 
the area when the spell is cast must make a 
successful Reflex save or fall. This save is 
repeated on your turn each round that the 
creature remains within the area. A crea-
ture can walk within or through the area of 
grease at half normal speed with a DC 10 
Balance check. Failure means it can’t move 
that round (and must then make a Reflex 
save or fall), while failure by 5 or more 
means it falls (see the Balance skill for 
details). 
The DM should adjust saving throws by 
circumstance. For example, a creature 
charging down an incline that is suddenly 
greased has little chance to avoid the effect, 
but its ability to exit the affected area is 
almost assured (whether it wants to or 
not). 
The spell can also be used to create a 
greasy coating on an item—a rope, ladder 
rungs, or a weapon handle, for instance. 
Material objects not in use are always af-
fected by this spell, while an object 
wielded or employed by a creature receives 
a Reflex saving throw to avoid the effect. If 
the initial saving throw fails, the creature 
immediately drops the item. A saving 
throw must be made in each round that 
the creature attempts to pick up or use the 
greased item. A creature wearing greased 
armor or clothing gains a +10 circumstance 
bonus on Escape Artist checks and on 
grapple checks made to resist or escape a 
grapple or to escape a pin. 
Material Component: A bit of pork rind or 
butter. 
 
Greater (Spell Name) 
Any spell whose name begins with greater 
is alphabetized in this chapter according to 
the second word of the spell name. Thus, 
the description of a greater spell appears 
near the description of the spell on which 
it is based. Spell chains that have greater 
spells in them include those based on the 
spells arcane sight , command, dispel magic , 
glyph of warding , invisibility, magic fang , 
magic weapon , planar ally , planar binding , 
prying eyes , restoration, scrying, shadow 
conjuration, shadow evocation , shout, and 
teleport. 
 
Guards and Wards 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: 30 minutes 
Range: Anywhere within the area to be 
warded 
Area: Up to 200 sq. ft./level (S) 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: See text 
 
This powerful spell is primarily used to 
defend your stronghold. The ward protects 
200 square feet per caster level. The 
warded area can be as much as 20 feet high, 
and shaped as you desire. You can ward 
several stories of a stronghold by dividing 
the area among them; you must be 
somewhere within the area to be warded to 
cast the spell. The spell creates the fol-
lowing magical effects within the warded 
area. 
Fog: Fog fills all corridors, obscuring all 
sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. 
A creature within 5 feet has concealment 
(attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures 
farther away have total concealment (50% 
miss chance, and the attacker cannot use 
sight to locate the target). Saving Throw: 
None. Spell Resistance: No. 
Arcane Locks:  All doors in the warded 
area are arcane locked. Saving Throw: None. 
Spell Resistance: No. 
Webs: Webs fill all stairs from top to 
bottom. These strands are identical with 
those created by the web spell, except that 
they regrow in 10 minutes if they are 
b u r n e d  o r  t o r n  a w a y  w h i l e  t h e  guards and 
wards spell lasts. Saving Throw: Reflex 
negates; see text for web. Spell Resistance: 
No. 
Confusion: Where there are choices in 
direction—such as a corridor intersection 
or side passage—a minor confusion-type 
effect functions so as to make it 50% 
probable that intruders believe they are 
going in the opposite direction from the 
one they actually chose. This is an en-
chantment, mind-affecting effect. Saving 
Throw: None. Spell Resistance: Yes. 
Lost Doors:  One door per caster level is 
covered by a silent image  to appear as if it 
were a plain wall. Saving Throw: Will dis-
belief (if interacted with). Spell Resistance: 
No. 
In addition, you can place your choice 
of one of the following five magical effects. 
1. Dancing lights  in four corridors. You 
can designate a simple program that causes 
the lights to repeat as long as the guards and 
wards spell lasts. Saving Throw: None. 
Spell Resistance: No. 
2. A magic mouth  in two places. Saving 
Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No. 
3. A stinking cloud  in two places. The 
vapors appear in the places you designate; 
they return within 10 minutes if dispersed 
by wind while the guards and wards  spell 
lasts. Saving Throw: Fortitude negates; see 
text for stinking cloud. Spell Resistance: No. 
4. A gust of wind in one corridor or room. 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates. Spell 
Resistance: Yes. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 