 
 252 
fifty arrows, bolts, or bullets. The projec-
tiles must be of the same kind, and they 
have to be together (in the same quiver or 
other container). Projectiles, but not 
thrown weapons, lose their transmutation 
when used. (Treat shuriken as projectiles, 
rather than as thrown weapons, for the 
purpose of this spell.) 
Arcane Material Component:  Powdered 
lime and carbon. 
 
Major Creation 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Duration: See text 
 
This spell functions like minor creation, ex-
cept that you can also create an object of 
mineral nature: stone, crystal, metal, or the 
like. The duration of the created item 
varies with its relative hardness and rarity, 
as indicated on the following table. 
 
Hardness and 
Rarity Examples Duration 
Vegetable matter 2 hr./level 
Stone, crystal, base metals 1 hr./level 
Precious metals 20 min./level 
Gems 10 min./level 
Rare metal1 1 round/level 
1 Includes adamantine, alchemical silver, and 
mithral. You can’t use major creation to 
create a cold iron item. See the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide for details. 
 
Major Image 
Illusion (Figment) 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Duration: Concentration + 3 rounds 
 
This spell functions like silent image, except 
that sound, smell, and thermal illusions are 
included in the spell effect. While con-
centrating, you can move the image within 
the range.  
The image disappears when struck by an 
opponent unless you cause the illusion to 
react appropriately. 
 
Make Whole 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 2 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One object of up to 10 cu. ft./ 
level 
 
This spell functions like mending, except 
that make whole  completely repairs an ob-
ject made of any substance, even one with 
multiple breaks, to be as strong as new. 
The spell does not restore the magical 
abilities of a broken magic item made 
whole, and it cannot mend broken magic 
rods, staffs, or wands. The spell does not 
repair items that have been warped, 
burned, disintegrated, ground to powder, 
melted, or vaporized, nor does it affect 
creatures (including constructs). 
 
Mark of Justice 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 5, Pal 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Permanent; see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
When moral persuasion fails to win a 
criminal over to right conduct, you can use 
mark of justice  to encourage the miscreant 
to walk the straight and narrow path. 
You draw an indelible mark on the sub-
ject and state some behavior on the part of 
the subject that will activate the mark. 
When activated, the mark curses the sub-
ject. Typically, you designate some sort of 
criminal behavior that activates the mark, 
but you can pick any act you please. The 
effect of the mark is identical with the 
effect of bestow curse. 
Since this spell takes 10 minutes to cast 
and involves writing on the target, you can 
cast it only on a creature that is willing or 
restrained. 
Like the effect of bestow curse , a mark of 
justice cannot be dispelled, but it can be 
removed with a break enchantment , limited 
wish, miracle, remove curse , or wish spell. 
Remove curse works only if its caster level is 
equal to or higher than your mark of justice  
caster level. These restrictions apply regar-
dless of whether the mark has activated. 
 
Mass (Spell Name) 
Any spell whose name begins with mass is 
alphabetized in this chapter according to 
the second word of the spell name. Thus, 
the description of a mass spell appears near 
the description of the spell on which it is 
based. Spell chains that have mass spells in 
them include those based on the spells 
bear’s endurance , bull’s strength , cat’s grace , 
charm monster, cure critical wounds , cure light 
wounds, cure moderate wounds , cure serious 
wounds, eagle’s splendor , enlarge person , fox’s 
cunning, heal, hold monster, hold person, inflict 
critical wounds , inflict light wounds , inflict 
moderate wounds , inflict serious wounds , 
invisibility, owl’s wisdom , reduce person , and 
suggestion. 
 
Maze 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You banish the subject into an extradi-
mensional labyrinth of force planes. Each 
round on its turn, it may attempt a DC 20 
Intelligence check to escape the labyrinth 
as a full-round action. If the subject doesn’t 
escape, the maze disappears after 10 
minutes, forcing the subject to leave. 
On escaping or leaving the maze, the 
subject reappears where it had been when 
the maze spell was cast. If this location is 
filled with a solid object, the subject 
appears in the nearest open space. 
Spells and abilities that move a creature 
within a plane, such as teleport and di-
mension door, do not help a creature escape 
a maze spell, although a plane shift  spell 
allows it to exit to whatever plane is desig-
nated in that spell. Minotaurs are not 
affected by this spell. 
 
Meld into Stone 
Transmutation [Earth] 
Level: Clr 3, Drd 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level 
 
Meld into stone  enables you to meld your 
body and possessions into a single block of 
stone. The stone must be large enough to 
accommodate your body in all three dim-
ensions. When the casting is complete, 
you and not more than 100 pounds of 
nonliving gear merge with the stone. If 
either condition is violated, the spell fails 
and is wasted. 
While in the stone, you remain in con-
tact, however tenuous, with the face of the 
stone through which you melded. You 
remain aware of the passage of time and 
can cast spells on yourself while hiding in 
the stone. Nothing that goes on outside 
the stone can be seen, but you can still 
hear what happens around you. Minor 
physical damage to the stone does not 
harm you, but its partial destruction (to the 
extent that you no longer fit within it) 
expels you and deals you 5d6 points of 
damage. The stone’s complete destruction 
expels you and slays you instantly unless 
you make a DC 18 Fortitude save. 
Any time before the duration expires, 
you can step out of the stone through the 
surface that you entered. If the spell’s 
duration expires or the effect is dispelled 
before you voluntarily exit the stone, you 
are violently expelled and take 5d6 points 
of damage. 
The following spells harm you if cast 
upon the stone that you are occupying: 
Stone to flesh expels you and deals you 5d6 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 