 
 266 
You can see through its eyes and hear 
through its ears as if you were standing 
where it is, and during your turn you can 
switch from using its senses to using your 
own, or back again, as a free action. While 
you are using its senses, your body is con-
sidered blinded and deafened. 
If you desire, any spell you cast whose 
range is touch or greater can originate 
from the projected image instead of from 
you. The projected image can’t cast any 
spells on itself except for illusion spells. 
The spells affect other targets normally, 
despite originating from the projected 
image. 
Objects are affected by the projected 
image as if they had succeeded on their 
Will save. 
You must maintain line of effect to the 
projected image at all times. If your line of 
effect is obstructed, the spell ends. If you 
use dimension door , teleport, plane shift , or a 
similar spell that breaks your line of effect, 
even momentarily, the spell ends. 
Material Component:  A small replica of 
you (a doll), which costs 5 gp to create. 
 
Protection from Arrows 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
discharged 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The warded creature gains resistance to 
ranged weapons. The subject gains damage 
reduction 10/magic against ranged 
weapons. (This spell doesn’t grant you the 
ability to damage creatures with similar 
damage reduction.) Once the spell has 
prevented a total of 10 points of damage 
per caster level (maximum 100 points), it is 
discharged. 
Focus: A piece of shell from a tortoise or 
a turtle. 
 
Protection from Chaos 
Abjuration [Lawful] 
Level: Clr 1, Law 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
 
This spell functions like protection from evil, 
except that the deflection and resistance 
bonuses apply to attacks from chaotic 
creatures, and chaotic summoned 
creatures cannot touch the subject. 
 
Protection from Energy 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Luck 3, Protection 3, 
Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level or until 
discharged 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm-
less) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
Protection from energy  grants temporary 
immunity to the type of energy you spec-
ify when you cast it (acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, or sonic). When the spell absorbs 12 
points per caster level of energy damage 
(to a maximum of 120 points at 10th level), 
it is discharged. 
Note: Protection from energy  overlaps (and 
does not stack with) resist energy . If a 
character is warded by protection from energy 
and resist energy, the protection spell absorbs 
damage until its power is exhausted. 
 
Protection from Evil 
Abjuration [Good] 
Level: Clr 1, Good 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No; see text 
 
This spell wards a creature from attacks by 
evil creatures, from mental control, and 
from summoned creatures. It creates a 
magical barrier around the subject at a 
distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with 
the subject and has three major effects. 
First, the subject gains a +2 deflection 
bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on 
saves. Both these bonuses apply against 
attacks made or effects created by evil 
creatures. 
Second, the barrier blocks any attempt 
to possess the warded creature (by a magic 
jar attack, for example) or to exercise 
mental control over the creature (include-
ing enchantment (charm) effects and 
enchantment (compulsion) effects that 
grant the caster ongoing control over the 
subject, such as dominate person ). The pro-
tection does not prevent such effects from 
targeting the protected creature, but it 
suppresses the effect for the duration of 
the protection from evil  effect. If the protec-
tion from evil  effect ends before the effect 
granting mental control does, the would-
be controller would then be able to men-
tally command the controlled creature. 
Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possess-
ing life force but does not expel one if it is 
in place before the spell is cast. This 
second effect works regardless of align-
ment. 
Third, the spell prevents bodily contact 
by summoned creatures. This causes the 
natural weapon attacks of such creatures to 
fail and the creatures to recoil if such 
attacks require touching the warded crea-
ture. Good summoned creatures are 
immune to this effect. The protection 
against contact by summoned creatures 
ends if the warded creature makes an 
attack against or tries to force the barrier 
against the blocked creature. Spell resist-
ance can allow a creature to overcome this 
protection and touch the warded creature. 
Arcane Material Component:  A little pow-
dered silver with which you trace a 3-foot -
diameter circle on the floor (or ground) 
around the creature to be warded. 
 
Protection from Good 
Abjuration [Evil] 
Level: Clr 1, Evil 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
 
This spell functions like protection from evil, 
except that the deflection and resistance 
bonuses apply to attacks from good 
creatures, and good summoned creatures 
cannot touch the subject. 
 
Protection from Law 
Abjuration [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
 
This spell functions like protection from evil, 
except that the deflection and resistance 
bonuses apply to attacks from lawful 
creatures, and lawful summoned creatures 
cannot touch the subject. 
 
Protection from Spells 
Abjuration 
Level: Magic 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: Up to one creature touched per 
four levels 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The subject gains a +8 resistance bonus on 
saving throws against spells and spell-like 
abilities (but not against supernatural and 
extraordinary abilities). 
Material Component:  A diamond of at 
least 500 gp value, which must be crushed 
and sprinkled over the targets. 
Focus: One 1,000 gp diamond per crea-
ture to be granted the protection. Each 
subject must carry one such gem for the 
duration of the spell. If a subject loses the 
gem, the spell ceases to affect him. 
 
Prying Eyes 
Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: One mile 
Effect: Ten or more levitating eyes 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 