 
 267
Duration: 1 hour/level; see text (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You create a number of semitangible, visi-
ble magical orbs (called “eyes”) equal to 
1d4 + your caster level. These eyes move 
out, scout around, and return as you direct 
them when casting the spell. Each eye can 
see 120 feet (normal vision only) in all 
directions. 
While the individual eyes are quite 
fragile, they’re small and difficult to spot. 
Each eye is a Fine construct, about the size 
of a small apple, that has 1 hit point, AC 18 
(+8 bonus for its size), flies at a speed of 30 
feet with perfect maneuverability, and has 
a +16 Hide modifier. It has a Spot modifier 
equal to your caster level (maximum +15) 
and is subject to illusions, darkness, fog, 
and any other factors that would affect 
your ability to receive visual information 
about your surroundings. An eye traveling 
through darkness must find its way by 
touch. 
When you create the eyes, you specify 
instructions you want them to follow in a 
command of no more than twenty-five 
words. Any knowledge you possess is 
known by the eyes as well, so if you know, 
for example, what a typical merchant looks 
like, the eyes do as well. 
A sample command: “Surround me at a 
range of four hundred feet and return if 
you spot any dangerous creatures.” The 
phrase “Surround me” directs the eyes to 
form an equally spaced, horizontal ring at 
whatever range you indicate, and then 
move with you. As eyes return or are 
destroyed, the rest automatically space 
themselves to compensate. In the case of 
this sample command, an eye returns only 
if it spots a creature you would regard as 
dangerous. A “peasant” that is actually a 
shapechanged dragon wouldn’t trigger an 
eye’s return. Ten eyes can form a ring with 
a radius of 400 feet and between them-
selves see everything that crosses the ring. 
Another sample command: “Spread out 
and search the town for Arweth. Follow 
him for three minutes, staying out of sight, 
and then return.” The phrase “Spread out” 
directs the eyes to move away from you in 
all directions. In this case, each eye would 
separately follow Arweth for three minutes 
once it spots him. 
Other commands that might be useful 
include having eyes form a line in a certain 
manner, making them move at random 
within a certain range, or having them 
follow a certain type of creature. The DM 
is the final judge of the suitability of your 
directions. 
In order to report their findings, the 
eyes must return to your hand. Each re-
plays in your mind all it has seen during its 
existence. It takes an eye 1 round to replay 
1 hour of recorded images. After relaying 
its findings, an eye disappears.  
If an eye ever gets more than 1 mile 
away from you, it instantly ceases to exist. 
However, your link with the eye is such 
that you won’t know if the eye was de-
stroyed because it wandered out of range 
or because of some other event. 
The eyes exist for up to 1 hour per caster 
level or until they return to you. Dispel 
magic can destroy eyes. Roll separately for 
each eye caught in an area dispel. Of 
course, if an eye is sent into darkness, it 
could hit a wall or similar obstacle and 
destroy itself. 
Material Component: A handful of crystal 
marbles. 
 
Prying Eyes, Greater 
Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
 
This spell functions like prying eyes, except 
that the eyes can see all things as they 
actually are, just as if they had true seeing  
with a range of 120 feet. Thus, they can 
navigate darkened areas at full normal 
speed. Also, a greater prying eye’s  maximum 
Spot modifier is +25 instead of +15. 
 
Purify Food and Drink 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 0, Drd 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 10 ft. 
Target: 1 cu. ft./level of contaminated 
food and water 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 
 
This spell makes spoiled, rotten, poison-
ous, or otherwise contaminated food and 
water pure and suitable for eating and 
drinking. This spell does not prevent sub-
sequent natural decay or spoilage. Unholy 
water and similar food and drink of sig-
nificance is spoiled by purify food and drink , 
but the spell has no effect on creatures of 
any type nor upon magic potions. 
Note: Water weighs about 8 pounds per 
gallon. One cubic foot of water contains 
roughly 8 gallons and weighs about 60 
pounds. 
 
Pyrotechnics 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Target: One fire source, up to a 20-ft. 
cube 
Duration: 1d4+1 rounds, or 1d4+1 
rounds after creatures leave the smoke 
cloud; see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates or Fortitude 
negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes or No; see text 
 
Pyrotechnics turns a fire into either a burst 
of blinding fireworks or a thick cloud of 
choking smoke, depending on the version 
you choose. 
Fireworks: The fireworks are a flashing, 
fiery, momentary burst of glowing, colored 
aerial lights. This effect causes creatures 
within 120 feet of the fire source to 
become blinded for 1d4+1 rounds (Will 
negates). These creatures must have line of 
sight to the fire to be affected. Spell 
resistance can prevent blindness. 
Smoke Cloud:  A writhing stream of 
smoke billows out from the source, form-
ing a choking cloud. The cloud spreads 20 
feet in all directions and lasts for 1 round 
per caster level. All sight, even darkvision, 
is ineffective in or through the cloud. All 
within the cloud take –4 penalties to 
Strength and Dexterity (Fortitude 
negates). These effects last for 1d4+1 
rounds after the cloud dissipates or after 
the creature leaves the area of the cloud. 
Spell resistance does not apply. 
Material Component:  The spell uses one 
fire source, which is immediately extin-
guished. A fire so large that it exceeds a 20-
foot cube is only partly extinguished. 
Magical fires are not extinguished, al-
though a fire-based creature (such as a fire 
elemental) used as a source takes 1 point of 
damage per caster level. 
 
Quench 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area or Target: One 20-ft. cube/level (S) 
or one fire-based magic item 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(object) 
Spell Resistance: No or Yes (object) 
 
Quench is often used to put out forest fires 
and other conflagrations. It extinguishes 
all nonmagical fires in its area. The spell 
also dispels any fire spells in its area, 
though you must succeed on a dispel 
check (1d20 +1 per caster level, maximum 
+15) against each spell to dispel it. The DC 
to dispel such spells is 11 + the caster level 
of the fire spell. 
Each elemental (fire) creature within 
the area of a quench spell takes 1d6 points 
of damage per caster level (maximum 
15d6, no save allowed). 
Alternatively, you can target the spell on 
a single magic item that creates or controls 
flame, such as a wand of fireball or a flaming 
burst sword. The item loses all its fire-based 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 