 
 272 
An invisible, mobile field surrounds you 
and prevents creatures from approaching 
you. You decide how big the field is at the 
time of casting (to the limit your level al-
lows). Any creature within or entering the 
field must attempt a save. If it fails, it 
becomes unable to move toward you for 
the duration of the spell. Repelled crea-
tures’ actions are not otherwise restricted. 
They can fight other creatures and can cast 
spells and attack you with ranged weapons. 
If you move closer to an affected creature, 
nothing happens. (The creature is not 
forced back.) The creature is free to make 
melee attacks against you if you come 
within reach. If a repelled creature moves 
away from you and then tries to turn back 
toward you, it cannot move any closer if it 
is still within the spell’s area. 
Arcane Focus:  A pair of small iron bars 
attached to two small canine statuettes, 
one black and one white, the whole array 
worth 50 gp. 
 
Resistance 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1, 
Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 minute 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
You imbue the subject with magical en-
ergy that protects it from harm, granting it 
a +1 resistance bonus on saves. 
Resistance can be made permanent with a 
permanency spell. 
Arcane Material Component:  A miniature 
cloak. 
 
Resist Energy 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Fire 3, Pal 2, Rgr 1, 
Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm-
less) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
This abjuration grants a creature limited 
protection from damage of whichever one 
of five energy types you select: acid, cold, 
electricity, fire, or sonic. The subject gains 
energy resistance 10 against the energy 
type chosen, meaning that each time the 
creature is subjected to such damage 
(whether from a natural or magical 
source), that damage is reduced by 10 
points before being applied to the crea-
ture’s hit points. The value of the energy 
resistance granted increases to 20 points at 
7th level and to a maximum of 30 points at 
11th level. The spell protects the 
recipient’s equipment as well. 
Resist energy  absorbs only damage. The 
subject could still suffer unfortunate side 
effects, such as drowning in acid (since 
drowning damage comes from lack of 
oxygen) or becoming encased in ice. 
Note: Resist energy overlaps (and does not 
stack with) protection from energy . If a 
character is warded by protection from energy 
and resist energy, the protection spell absorbs 
damage until its power is exhausted. 
 
Restoration 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 4, Pal 4 
Components: V, S, M 
 
This spell functions like lesser restoration , 
except that it also dispels negative levels 
and restores one experience level to a 
creature who has had a level drained. The 
drained level is restored only if the time 
since the creature lost the level is equal to 
or less than one day per caster level. Thus, 
if a 10th-level character has been struck by 
a wight and drained to 9th level, restoration 
brings the character up to exactly the 
minimum number of experience points 
necessary to restore him to 10th level 
(45,000 XP), gaining him an additional Hit 
Die and level functions accordingly. 
Restoration cures all temporary ability 
damage, and it restores all points perma-
nently drained from a single ability score 
(your choice if more than one is drained). 
It also eliminates any fatigue or exhaustion 
suffered by the target.  
Restoration does not restore levels or 
Constitution points lost due to death. 
Material Component:  Diamond dust 
worth 100 gp that is sprinkled over the 
target. 
 
Restoration, Greater 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 7 
Components: V, S, XP 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
 
This spell functions like lesser restoration , 
except that it dispels all negative levels 
afflicting the healed creature. This effect 
also reverses level drains by a force or 
creature, restoring the creature to the 
highest level it had previously attained. 
The drained levels are restored only if the 
time since the creature lost the level is no 
more than one week per caster level. 
Greater restoration also dispels all magical 
effects penalizing the creature’s abilities, 
cures all temporary ability damage, and 
restores all points permanently drained 
from all ability scores. It also eliminates 
fatigue and exhaustion, and removes all 
forms of insanity, confusion, and similar 
mental effects. Greater restoration  does not 
restore levels or Constitution points lost 
due to death. 
XP Cost: 500 XP. 
 
Restoration, Lesser 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Pal 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 3 rounds 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
Lesser restoration dispels any magical effects 
reducing one of the subject’s ability scores 
(such as ray of enfeeblement ) or cures 1d4 
points of temporary ability damage to one 
of the subject’s ability scores (such as from 
a shadow’s touch or from poison). It also 
eliminates any fatigue suffered by the 
character, and improves an exhausted 
condition to fatigued. It does not restore 
permanent ability drain. 
 
Resurrection 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 7 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
 
This spell functions like raise dead , except 
that you are able to restore life and com-
plete strength to any deceased creature. 
The condition of the remains is not a 
factor. So long as some small portion of the 
creature’s body still exists, it can be 
resurrected, but the portion receiving the 
spell must have been part of the creature’s 
body at the time of death. (The remains of 
a creature hit by a disintegrate spell count as 
a small portion of its body.) The creature 
can have been dead no longer than 10 
years per caster level. 
Upon completion of the spell, the 
creature is immediately restored to full hit 
points, vigor, and health, with no loss of 
prepared spells. However, the subject loses 
one level, or 2 points of Constitution if the 
subject was 1st level. (If this reduction 
would bring its Con to 0 or lower, it can’t 
be resurrected). This level loss or 
Constitution loss cannot be repaired by 
any means. 
You can resurrect someone killed by a 
death effect or someone who has been 
turned into an undead creature and then 
destroyed. You cannot resurrect someone 
who has died of old age. Constructs, ele-
mentals, outsiders, and undead creatures 
can’t be resurrected. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 