 
 283
three-fourths of the damage. If you were 
targeted by a wizard’s fear spell (also a 4th-
level spell) in the same situation, you 
would have a one in four (25%) chance to 
be affected by the spell, while the caster 
would have a three in four (75%) chance to 
be affected. 
If you and a spellcasting attacker are 
both warded by spell turning  effects in 
operation, a resonating field is created. 
Roll randomly to determine the result. 
 
d% Effect 
01–70 Spell drains away without effect. 
71–80 Spell affects both of you equally at 
 full effect. 
81–97 Both turning effects are rendered 
 nonfunctional for 1d4 minutes. 
98–100 Both of you go through a rift into 
 another plane.  
 
Arcane Material Component: A small silver 
mirror. 
 
Spider Climb 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The subject can climb and travel on verti-
cal surfaces or even traverse ceilings as 
well as a spider does. The affected creature 
must have its hands free to climb in this 
manner. The subject gains a climb speed of 
20 feet; furthermore, it need not make 
Climb checks to traverse a vertical or hori-
zontal surface (even upside down). A spider 
climbing creature retains its Dexterity 
bonus to Armor Class (if any) while climb-
ing, and opponents get no special bonus to 
their attacks against it. It cannot, however, 
use the run action while climbing. 
Material Component:  A drop of bitumen 
and a live spider, both of which must be 
eaten by the subject. 
 
Spike Growth 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 3, Rgr 2 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: One 20-ft. square/level 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Reflex partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Any ground-covering vegetation in the 
spell’s area becomes very hard and sharply 
pointed without changing its appearance. 
In areas of bare earth, roots and rootlets act 
in the same way. Typically, spike growth can 
be cast in any outdoor setting except open 
water, ice, heavy snow, sandy desert, or 
bare stone. Any creature moving on foot 
into or through the spell’s area takes 1d4 
points of piercing damage for each 5 feet of 
movement through the spiked area. 
Any creature that takes damage from 
this spell must also succeed on a Reflex 
save or suffer injuries to its feet and legs 
that slow its land speed by one-half. This 
speed penalty lasts for 24 hours or until the 
injured creature receives a cure spell 
(which also restores lost hit points). An-
other character can remove the penalty by 
taking 10 minutes to dress the injuries and 
succeeding on a Heal check against the 
spell’s save DC. 
Spike growth  can’t be disabled with the 
Disable Device skill. 
Note: Magic traps such as spike growth are 
hard to detect. A rogue (only) can use the 
Search skill to find a spike growth. The DC 
is 25 + spell level, or DC 28 for spike growth 
(or DC 27 for spike growth cast by a ranger). 
 
Spike Stones 
Transmutation [Earth] 
Level: Drd 4, Earth 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: One 20-ft. square/level 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Reflex partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Rocky ground, stone floors, and similar 
surfaces shape themselves into long, sharp 
points that blend into the background. 
Spike stones  impede progress through an 
area and deal damage. Any creature 
moving on foot into or through the spell’s 
area moves at half speed. 
In addition, each creature moving 
through the area takes 1d8 points of pierc-
ing damage for each 5 feet of movement 
through the spiked area. 
Any creature that takes damage from 
this spell must also succeed on a Reflex 
save to avoid injuries to its feet and legs. A 
failed save causes the creature’s speed to be 
reduced to half normal for 24 hours or 
until the injured creature receives a cure 
spell (which also restores lost hit points). 
Another character can remove the penalty 
by taking 10 minutes to dress the injuries 
and succeeding on a Heal check against 
the spell’s save DC. 
Spike stones  is a magic trap that can’t be 
disabled with the Disable Device skill. 
Note: Magic traps such as spike stones are 
hard to detect. A rogue (only) can use the 
Search skill to find spike stones . The DC is 
25 + spell level, or DC 29 for spike stones. 
Spiritual Weapon 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Clr 2, War 2 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Magic weapon of force 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A weapon made of pure force springs into 
existence and attacks opponents at a dis-
tance, as you direct it, dealing 1d8 force 
damage per hit, +1 point per three caster 
levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). The 
weapon takes the shape of a weapon fa-
vored by your deity or a weapon with some 
spiritual significance or symbolism to you 
(see below) and has the same threat range 
and critical multipliers as a real weapon of 
its form. It strikes the opponent you 
designate, starting with one attack in the 
round the spell is cast and continuing each 
round thereafter on your turn. It uses your 
base attack bonus (possibly allowing it 
multiple attacks per round in subsequent 
rounds) plus your Wisdom modifier as its 
attack bonus. It strikes as a spell, not as a 
weapon, so, for example, it can damage 
creatures that have damage reduction. As a 
force effect, it can strike incorporeal 
creatures without the normal miss chance 
associated with incorporeality. The 
weapon always strikes from your direction. 
It does not get a flanking bonus or help a 
combatant get one. Your feats (such as 
Weapon Focus) or combat actions (such as 
charge) do not affect the weapon. If the 
weapon goes beyond the spell range, if it 
goes out of your sight, or if you are not 
directing it, the weapon returns to you and 
hovers. 
Each round after the first, you can use a 
move action to redirect the weapon to a 
new target. If you do not, the weapon con-
tinues to attack the previous round’s target. 
On any round that the weapon switches 
targets, it gets one attack. Subsequent 
rounds of attacking that target allow the 
weapon to make multiple attacks if your 
base attack bonus would allow it to. Even if 
the spiritual weapon is a ranged weapon, use 
the spell’s range, not the weapon’s normal 
range increment, and switching targets 
still is a move action. 
A spiritual weapon cannot be attacked or 
harmed by physical attacks, but dispel 
magic, disintegrate, a sphere of annihilation, or 
a rod of cancellation  affects it. A spiritual 
weapon’s AC against touch attacks is 12 (10 
+ size bonus for Tiny object). 
If an attacked creature has spell resist-
ance, you make a caster level check (1d20 + 
caster level) against that spell resistance 
the first time the spiritual weapon strikes it. 
If the weapon is successfully resisted, the 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 