 
 285
touched them as well as revealing what is 
covered or concealed behind or under 
them. The stones relate complete descrip-
tions if asked. A stone’s perspective, per-
ception, and knowledge may prevent the 
stone from providing the details you are 
looking for (as determined by the DM). 
You can speak with natural or worked 
stone. 
 
Stone to Flesh 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One petrified creature or a cylin-
der of stone from 1 ft. to 3 ft. in diame-
ter and up to 10 ft. long 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (object); 
see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell restores a petrified creature to its 
normal state, restoring life and goods. The 
creature must make a DC 15 Fortitude save 
to survive the process. Any petrified 
creature, regardless of size, can be restored. 
The spell also can convert a mass of 
stone into a fleshy substance. Such flesh is 
inert and lacking a vital life force unless a 
life force or magical energy is available. 
(For example, this spell would turn a stone 
golem into a flesh golem, but an ordinary 
statue would become a corpse.) You can 
affect an object that fits within a cylinder 
from 1 foot to 3 feet in diameter and up to 
10 feet long or a cylinder of up to those 
dimensions in a larger mass of stone. 
Material Component:  A pinch of earth 
and a drop of blood. 
 
Storm of Vengeance 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Drd 9, Clr 9 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Effect: 360-ft.-radius storm cloud 
Duration: Concentration (maximum 10 
rounds) (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell creates an enormous black storm 
cloud. Lightning and crashing claps of 
thunder appear within the storm. Each 
creature beneath the cloud must succeed 
on a Fortitude save or be deafened for 
1d4×10 minutes. 
If you do not maintain concentration on 
the spell after casting it, the spell ends.  If 
you continue to concentrate, the spell 
generates additional effects in each fol-
lowing round, as noted below. Each effect 
occurs during your turn. 
2nd Round: Acid rains down in the area, 
dealing 1d6 points of acid damage (no 
save). 
3rd Round: You call six bolts of lightning 
down from the cloud. You decide where 
the bolts strike. No two bolts may be 
directed at the same target. Each bolt deals 
10d6 points of electricity damage. A 
creature struck can attempt a Reflex save 
for half damage. 
4th Round:  Hailstones rain down in the 
area, dealing 5d6 points of bludgeoning 
damage (no save). 
5th through 10th Rounds:  Violent rain and 
wind gusts reduce visibility. The rain 
obscures all sight, including darkvision, 
beyond 5 feet. A creature 5 feet away has 
concealment (attacks have a 20% miss 
chance). Creatures farther away have total 
concealment (50% miss chance, and the 
attacker cannot use sight to locate the 
target). Speed is reduced by three-quarters. 
Ranged attacks within the area of the 
storm are impossible. Spells cast within 
the area are disrupted unless the caster 
succeeds on a Concentration check against 
a DC equal to the storm of vengeance ’s save 
DC + the level of the spell the caster is 
trying to cast. 
 
Suggestion 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-
Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 hour/level or until completed 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You influence the actions of the target 
creature by suggesting a course of activity 
(limited to a sentence or two). The sug-
gestion must be worded in such a manner as 
to make the activity sound reasonable. 
Asking the creature to stab itself, throw 
itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do 
some other obviously harmful act auto-
matically negates the effect of the spell. 
However, a suggestion that a pool of acid is 
actually pure water and that a quick dip 
would be refreshing is another matter. 
Urging a red dragon to stop attacking your 
party so that the dragon and party could 
jointly loot a rich treasure elsewhere is a 
likewise reasonable use of the spell’s 
power.  
The suggested course of activity can 
continue for the entire duration, such as in 
the case of the red dragon mentioned 
above. If the suggested activity can be 
completed in a shorter time, the spell ends 
when the subject finishes what it was 
asked to do. You can instead specify 
conditions that will trigger a special ac-
tivity during the duration. For example, 
you might suggest that a noble knight give 
her warhorse to the first beggar she meets. 
If the condition is not met before the spell 
duration expires, the activity is not 
performed. 
A very reasonable suggestion causes the 
save to be made with a penalty (such as –1 
or –2) at the discretion of the DM. 
Material Component:  A snake’s tongue 
and either a bit of honeycomb or a drop of 
sweet oil. 
 
Suggestion, Mass 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-
Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 6 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
 
This spell functions like suggestion, except 
that it can affect more creatures. The same 
suggestion applies to all these creatures. 
 
Summon Instrument 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Brd 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: One summoned handheld musi- 
cal instrument 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell summons one handheld musical 
instrument of your choice. This in-
strument appears in your hands or at your 
feet (your choice). The instrument is typi-
cal for its type. Only one instrument 
appears per casting, and it will play only 
for you. You can’t summon an instrument 
too large to be held in two hands (such as a 
harp, piano, harpsichord, alphorn, or pipe 
organ). 
 
Summon Monster I 
Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, F/DF 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One summoned creature 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell summons an extraplanar crea-
ture (typically an outsider, elemental, or 
magical beast native to another plane). It 
appears where you designate and acts 
immediately, on your turn. It attacks your 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 