 
 290 
gered, a symbol of death  slays one or more 
creatures within 60 feet of the symbol 
(treat as a burst) whose combined total 
current hit points do not exceed 150. The 
symbol of death  affects the closest creatures 
first, skipping creatures with too many hit 
points to affect. Once triggered, the 
symbol becomes active and glows, lasting 
for 10 minutes per caster level or until it 
has affected 150 hit points’ worth of 
creatures, whichever comes first. Any 
creature that enters the area while the 
symbol of death  is active is subject to its 
effect, whether or not that creature was in 
the area when it was triggered. A creature 
need save against the symbol only once as 
long as it remains within the area, though 
if it leaves the area and returns while the 
symbol is still active, it must save again. 
Until it is triggered, the symbol of death is 
inactive (though visible and legible at a 
distance of 60 feet). To be effective, a sym-
bol of death  must always be placed in plain 
sight and in a prominent location. Cover-
ing or hiding the rune renders the symbol of 
death ineffective, unless a creature removes 
the covering, in which case the symbol of 
death works normally. 
As a default, a symbol of death is triggered 
whenever a creature does one or more of 
the following, as you select: looks at the 
rune; reads the rune; touches the rune; 
passes over the rune; or passes through a 
portal bearing the rune. Regardless of the 
trigger method or methods chosen, a 
creature more than 60 feet from a symbol 
of death can’t trigger it (even if it meets 
one or more of the triggering conditions, 
such as reading the rune). Once the spell is 
cast, a symbol of death ’s triggering condi-
tions cannot be changed. 
In this case, “reading” the rune means 
any attempt to study it, identify it, or 
fathom its meaning. Throwing a cover over 
a symbol of death  to render it inoperative 
triggers it if the symbol reacts to touch. 
You can’t use a symbol of death  offensively; 
for instance, a touch-triggered symbol of 
death remains untriggered if an item 
bearing the symbol of death  is used to touch 
a creature. Likewise, a symbol of death  
cannot be placed on a weapon and set to 
activate when the weapon strikes a foe. 
You can also set special triggering limi-
tations of your own. These can be as simple 
or elaborate as you desire. Special con-
ditions for triggering a symbol of death  can 
be based on a creature’s name, identity, or 
alignment, but otherwise must be based on 
observable actions or qualities. Intangibles 
such as level, class, Hit Dice, and hit points 
don’t qualify. For example, a symbol of death 
can be set to activate when a lawful good 
creature approaches, but not when a 
paladin approaches. 
When scribing a symbol of death, you can 
specify a password or phrase that prevents 
a creature using it from triggering the 
effect. Anyone using the password remains 
immune to that particular rune’s effects so 
long as the creature remains within 60 feet 
of the rune. If the creature leaves the 
radius and returns later, it must use the 
password again. 
You also can attune any number of crea-
tures to the symbol of death , but doing this 
can extend the casting time. Attuning one 
or two creatures takes negligible time, and 
attuning a small group (as many as ten 
creatures) extends the casting time to 1 
hour. Attuning a large group (as many as 
twenty-five creatures) takes 24 hours. At-
tuning larger groups takes proportionately 
longer, as the DM sees fit. Any creature 
attuned to a symbol of death cannot trigger it 
and is immune to its effects, even if within 
its radius when triggered. You are auto-
matically considered attuned to your own 
symbols of death , and thus always ignore the 
effects and cannot inadvertently trigger 
them. 
Read magic allows you to identify a sym-
bol of death  with a DC 19 Spellcraft check. 
Of course, if the symbol of death  is set to be 
triggered by reading it, this will trigger the 
symbol. 
A symbol of death  can be removed by a 
successful dispel magic  targeted solely on 
the rune. An erase spell has no effect on a 
symbol of death. Destruction of the surface 
where a symbol of death is inscribed destroys 
the symbol but also triggers it. 
Symbol of death  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. A permanent 
symbol of death  t h a t  i s  d i s a b l e d  o r  t h a t  h a s  
affected its maximum number of hit points 
becomes inactive for 10 minutes, then can 
be triggered again as normal. 
Note: Magic traps such as symbol of death  
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find a 
symbol of death  and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell 
level, or 33 for symbol of death. 
Material Component:  Mercury and phos-
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 5,000 gp each. 
 
Symbol of Fear 
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
 
This spell functions like symbol of death , 
except that all creatures within 60 feet of 
the symbol of fear  instead become panicked 
for 1 round per caster level. 
Note: Magic traps such as symbol of fear  
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find a 
symbol of fear  and Disable Device to thwart 
it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, 
or 31 for symbol of fear. 
Material Component:  Mercury and phos-
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 1,000 gp. 
 
Symbol of Insanity 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Clr 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
 
This spell functions like symbol of death , 
except that all creatures within the radius 
of the symbol of insanity  instead become 
permanently insane (as the insanity spell). 
Unlike symbol of death, symbol of insane-
ity has no hit point limit; once triggered, a 
symbol of insanity  simply remains active for 
10 minutes per caster level. 
Note: Magic traps such as symbol of 
insanity are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to 
find a symbol of insanity  and Disable Device 
to thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + 
spell level, or 33 for symbol of insanity. 
Material Component:  Mercury and phos-
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 5,000 gp. 
 
Symbol of Pain 
Necromancy [Evil] 
Level: Clr 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
 
This spell functions like symbol of death , 
except that each creature within the radius 
of a symbol of pain  instead suffers wracking 
pains that impose a –4 penalty on attack 
rolls, skill checks, and ability checks. 
These effects last for 1 hour after the crea-
ture moves farther than 60 feet from the 
symbol. 
Unlike symbol of death , symbol of pain  has 
no hit point limit; once triggered, a symbol 
of pain  simply remains active for 10 min-
utes per caster level. 
Note: Magic traps such as symbol of pain  
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find a 
symbol of pain and Disable Device to thwart 
it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, 
or 30 for symbol of pain. 
Material Component:  Mercury and phos-
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 1,000 gp. 
 
Symbol of Persuasion 
Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
 
This spell functions like symbol of death , 
except that all creatures within the radius 
of a symbol of persuasion  instead become 
charmed by the caster (as the charm monster 
spell) for 1 hour per caster level. 
Unlike symbol of death , symbol of persua-
sion has no hit point limit; once triggered, a 
symbol of persuasion  simply remains active 
for 10 minutes per caster level. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 