 
 292 
Sympathy 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 hour 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One location (up to a 10-ft. 
cube/level) or one object 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You cause an object or location to emanate 
magical vibrations that attract either a spe-
cific kind of intelligent creature or crea-
tures of a particular alignment, as defined 
by you. The particular kind of creature to 
be affected must be named specifically—
for example, red dragons, hill giants, wer-
erats, lammasus, or vampires. A creature 
subtype (such as goblinoid) is not specific 
enough. Likewise, the specific alignment 
must be named—for example, chaotic evil, 
chaotic good, lawful neutral, or neutral. 
Creatures of the specified kind or align-
ment feel elated and pleased to be in the 
area or desire to touch or to possess the 
object. The compulsion to stay in the area 
or touch the object is overpowering. If the 
save is successful, the creature is released 
from the enchantment, but a subsequent 
save must be made 1d6×10 minutes later. If 
this save fails, the affected creature 
attempts to return to the area or object. 
Sympathy counters and dispels antipathy. 
Material Component:  1,500 gp worth of 
crushed pearls and a drop of honey. 
 
Tasha’s Hideous Laughter 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature; see text 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell afflicts the subject with uncon-
trollable laughter. It collapses into gales of 
manic laughter, falling prone. The subject 
can take no actions while laughing, but is 
not considered helpless. After the spell 
ends, it can act normally. 
A creature with an Intelligence score of 
2 or lower is not affected. A creature whose 
type (such as humanoid or dragon) is 
different from the caster’s receives a +4 
bonus on its saving throw, because humor 
doesn’t “translate” well. 
Material Component:  Tiny tarts that are 
thrown at the target and a feather that is 
waved in the air. 
 
Telekinesis 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Target or Targets: See text 
Duration: Concentration (up to 1 
round/ level) or instantaneous; 
see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) or 
None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object); see text 
 
You move objects or creatures by concen-
trating on them. Depending on the version 
selected, the spell can provide a gentle, 
sustained force, perform a variety of 
combat maneuvers, or exert a single short, 
violent thrust. 
Sustained Force:  A sustained force moves 
an object weighing no more than 25 
pounds per caster level (maximum 375 
pounds at 15th level) up to 20 feet per 
round. A creature can negate the effect on 
an object it possesses with a successful 
Will save or with spell resistance. 
This version of the spell can last 1 round 
per caster level, but it ends if you cease 
concentration. The weight can be moved 
vertically, horizontally, or in both 
directions. An object cannot be moved 
beyond your range. The spell ends if the 
object is forced beyond the range. If you 
cease concentration for any reason, the 
object falls or stops. 
An object can be telekinetically man-
ipulated as if with one hand. For example, 
a lever or rope can be pulled, a key can be 
turned, an object rotated, and so on, if the 
force required is within the weight limita-
tion. You might even be able to untie 
simple knots, though delicate activities 
such as these require Intelligence checks 
against a DC set by the DM. 
Combat Maneuver:  Alternatively, once 
per round, you can use telekinesis to per-
form a bull rush, disarm, grapple (includ-
ing pin), or trip. Resolve these attempts as 
normal, except that they don’t provoke at-
tacks of opportunity, you use your caster 
level in place of your base attack bonus (for 
disarm and grapple), you use your In-
telligence modifier (if a wizard) or Cha-
risma modifier (if a sorcerer) in place of 
your Strength or Dexterity modifier, and a 
failed attempt doesn’t allow a reactive 
attempt by the target (such as for disarm or 
trip). No save is allowed against these 
attempts, but spell resistance applies nor-
mally. This version of the spell can last 1 
round per caster level, but it ends if you 
cease concentration. 
Violent Thrust:  Alternatively, the spell 
energy can be spent in a single round. You 
can hurl one object or creature per caster 
level (maximum 15) that are within range 
and all within 10 feet of each other toward 
any target within 10 feet per level of all the 
objects. You can hurl up to a total weight of 
25 pounds per caster level (maximum 375 
pounds at 15th level). 
You must succeed on attack rolls (one 
per creature or object thrown) to hit the 
target with the items, using your base 
attack bonus + your Intelligence modifier 
(if a wizard) or Charisma modifier (if a 
sorcerer). Weapons cause standard damage 
(with no Strength bonus; note that arrows 
or bolts deal damage as daggers of their 
size when used in this manner). Other 
objects cause damage ranging from 1 point 
per 25 pounds (for less dangerous objects 
such as a barrel) to 1d6 points of damage 
per 25 pounds (for hard, dense objects 
such as a boulder). 
Creatures who fall within the weight 
capacity of the spell can be hurled, but 
they are allowed Will saves (and spell re-
sistance) to negate the effect, as are those 
whose held possessions are targeted by the 
spell. If a telekinesed creature is hurled 
against a solid surface, it takes damage as if 
it had fallen 10 feet (1d6 points). 
 
Teleport 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5, Travel 5 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal and touch 
Target: You and touched objects or other 
touched willing creatures 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None and Will negates 
(object) 
Spell Resistance: No and Yes (object) 
 
This spell instantly transports you to a 
designated destination, which may be as 
distant as 100 miles per caster level. Inter-
planar travel is not possible. You can bring 
along objects as long as their weight 
doesn’t exceed your maximum load. You 
may also bring one additional willing 
Medium or smaller creature (carrying gear 
or objects up to its maximum load) or its 
equivalent (see below) per three caster 
levels. A Large creature counts as two Me-
dium creatures, a Huge creature counts as 
two Large creatures, and so forth. All crea-
tures to be transported must be in contact 
with one another, and at least one of those 
creatures must be in contact with you. As 
with all spells where the range is personal 
and the target is you, you need not make a 
saving throw, nor is spell resistance appli-
cable to you. Only objects held or in use 
(attended) by another person receive 
saving throws and spell resistance. 
You must have some clear idea of the 
location and layout of the destination. You 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 