 
 293
can’t simply teleport to the warlord’s tent if 
you don’t know where that tent is, what it 
looks like, or what’s in it. The clearer your 
mental image, the more likely the 
teleportation works. Areas of strong 
physical or magical energy may make 
teleportation more hazardous or even 
impossible. 
To see how well the teleportation works, 
roll d% and consult the Teleport table. 
Refer to the following information for 
definitions of the terms on the table. 
Familiarity: “Very familiar” is a place 
where you have been very often and where 
you feel at home. “Studied carefully” is a 
place you know well, either because you 
can currently see it, you’ve been there 
often, or you have used other means (such 
as scrying) to study the place for at least 
one hour. “Seen casually” is a place that 
you have seen more than once but with 
which you are not very familiar. “Viewed 
once” is a place that you have seen once, 
possibly using magic.  
“False destination” is a place that does 
not truly exist, such as if you scryed on a 
enemy’s sanctum but instead viewed a false 
vision, or if you are teleporting to an 
otherwise familiar location that no longer 
exists as such or has been so completely 
altered as to no longer be familiar to you 
(for instance, a home that has burned to 
the ground). When traveling to a false 
destination, roll 1d20+80 to obtain results 
on the table, rather than rolling d%, since 
there is no real destination for you to hope 
to arrive at or even be off target from. 
On Target:  You appear where you want 
to be. 
Off Target:  You appear safely a random 
distance away from the destination in a 
random direction. Distance off target is 
1d10×1d10% of the distance that was to be 
traveled. For example, if you tried to travel 
120 miles, landed off target, and rolled 5 
and 3 on the two d10s, then you would be 
15% off target. That’s 18 miles, in this case. 
The DM determines the direction off 
target randomly, such as by rolling 1d8 and 
designating 1 as north, 2 as northeast, and 
so forth. If you were teleporting to a 
coastal city and would up 18 miles out at 
sea, you could be in trouble. 
Similar Area:  You wind up in an area 
that’s visually or thematically similar to the 
target area. A wizard heading for her home 
laboratory might wind up in another 
wizard’s laboratory or in an alchemy 
supply shop that has many of the same 
tools and implements as in her laboratory. 
Generally, you appear in the closest similar 
place within range. If the DM determines 
no such area exists within the spell’s range, 
the spell simply fails instead. 
Mishap: You and anyone else teleporting 
with you have gotten “scrambled.” You 
each take 1d10 points of damage, and you 
reroll on the chart to see where you wind 
up. For these rerolls, roll 1d20+80. Each 
time “Mishap” comes up, the characters 
take more damage and must reroll. 
 
Teleport Object 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Range: Touch 
Target: One touched object of up to 50 
lb./level and 3 cu. ft./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 
 
This spell functions like teleport, except 
that it teleports an object, not you. Crea-
tures and magical forces (such as a delayed 
blast fireball bead) cannot be teleported. 
If desired, the target object can be sent 
to a distant location on the Ethereal Plane. 
In this case, the point from which the 
object was teleported remains faintly 
magical until the item is retrieved. A suc-
cessful targeted dispel magic  spell cast on 
that point brings the vanished item back 
from the Ethereal Plane. 
 
Teleport, Greater 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 7 
 
This spell functions like teleport, except 
that there is no range limit and there is no 
chance you arrive off target. In addition, 
you need not have seen the destination, 
but in that case you must have at least a 
reliable description of the place to which 
you are teleporting (such as a detailed 
description from someone else or a partic-
ularly precise map). If you attempt to tele-
port with insufficient information (or with 
misleading information), you disappear 
and simply reappear in your original 
location. Interplanar travel is not possible. 
Teleportation Circle 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: 5-ft.-radius circle that teleports 
those who activate it 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You create a circle on the floor or other 
horizontal surface that teleports, as greater 
teleport, any creature who stands on it to a 
designated spot. Once you designate the 
destination for the circle, you can’t change 
it. The spell fails if you attempt to set the 
circle to teleport creatures into a solid 
object, to a place with which you are not 
familiar and have no clear description, or 
to another plane. 
The circle itself is subtle and nearly 
impossible to notice. If you intend to keep 
creatures from activating it accidentally, 
you need to mark the circle in some way, 
such as by placing it on a raised platform. 
Teleportation circle  c a n  b e  m a d e  p e r m a -
nent with a permanency spell. A permanent 
teleportation circle that is disabled be-
comes inactive for 10 minutes, then can be 
triggered again as normal. 
Note: Magic traps such as teleportation 
circle are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to 
find the circle and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell 
level, or 34 in the case of teleportation circle. 
Material Component: Amber dust to cover 
the area of the circle (cost 1,000 gp). 
 
Temporal Stasis 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You must succeed on a melee touch attack. 
You place the subject into a state of sus-
pended animation. For the creature, time 
ceases to flow and its condition becomes 
fixed. The creature does not grow older. Its 
body functions virtually cease, and no 
force or effect can harm it. This state 
persists until the magic is removed (such 
as by a successful dispel magic  spell or a 
freedom spell). 
Material Component:  A powder compo-
sed of diamond, emerald, ruby, and sap-
phire dust with a total value of at least 
5,000 gp. 
 
 
Teleport 
 On Off Similar 
Familiarity Target Target Area Mishap  
Very familiar 01–97 98–99 100 — 
Studied carefully 01–94 95–97 98–99 100 
Seen casually 01–88 89–94 95–98 99–100 
Viewed once 01–76 77–88 89–96 97–100 
False destination (1d20+80) — — 81–92 93–100 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 