 
 302 
Wind Walk 
Transmutation [Air] 
Level: Clr 6, Drd 7 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: You and one touched creature 
per three levels 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D); see text 
Saving Throw: No and Will negates 
(harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No and Yes (harmless) 
 
You alter the substance of your body to a 
cloudlike vapor (as the gaseous form  spell) 
and move through the air, possibly at great 
speed. You can take other creatures with 
you, each of which acts independently. 
Normally, a wind walker  flies at a speed 
of 10 feet with perfect maneuverability. If 
desired by the subject, a magical wind 
wafts a wind walker along at up to 600 feet 
per round (60 mph) with poor maneu-
verability. Wind walkers  are not invisible 
but rather appear misty and translucent. If 
fully clothed in white, they are 80% likely 
to be mistaken for clouds, fog, vapors, or 
the like. 
A wind walker  can regain its physical 
form as desired and later resume the cloud 
form. Each change to and from vaporous 
form takes 5 rounds, which counts toward 
the duration of the spell (as does any time 
spent in physical form). As noted above, 
you can dismiss the spell, and you can even 
dismiss it for individual wind walkers and 
not others. 
For the last minute of the spell’s dura-
tion, a wind walker  in cloud form auto-
matically descends 60 feet per round (for a 
total of 600 feet), though it may descend 
faster if it wishes. This descent serves as a 
warning that the spell is about to end. 
 
Wind Wall 
Evocation [Air] 
Level: Air 2, Clr 3, Drd 3, Rgr 2, Sor/ 
Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Wall up to 10 ft./level long and 
5 ft./level high (S) 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
An invisible vertical curtain of wind ap-
pears. It is 2 feet thick and of considerable 
strength. It is a roaring blast sufficient to 
blow away any bird smaller than an eagle, 
or tear papers and similar materials from 
unsuspecting hands. (A Reflex save allows 
a creature to maintain its grasp on an 
object.) Tiny and Small flying creatures 
cannot pass through the barrier. Loose 
materials and cloth garments fly upward 
w h e n  c a u g h t  i n  a  wind wall . Arrows and 
bolts are deflected upward and miss, while 
any other normal ranged weapon passing 
through the wall has a 30% miss chance. (A 
giant-thrown boulder, a siege engine 
projectile, and other massive ranged 
weapons are not affected.) Gases, most 
gaseous breath weapons, and creatures in 
gaseous form cannot pass through the wall 
(although it is no barrier to incorporeal 
creatures). 
While the wall must be vertical, you can 
shape it in any continuous path along the 
ground that you like. It is possible to create 
cylindrical or square wind walls to enclose 
specific points. A 5th-level caster can 
create a wall up to 50 feet long and up to 25 
feet high, sufficient to form a cylinder of 
wind 15 feet in diameter. 
Arcane Material Component:  A tiny fan 
and a feather of exotic origin. 
 
Wish 
Universal 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, XP 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Wish is the mightiest spell a wizard or sor-
cerer can cast. By simply speaking aloud, 
you can alter reality to better suit you. 
Even wish, however, has its limits. 
A wish can produce any one of the fol-
lowing effects. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell of 
8th level or lower, provided the spell is 
not of a school prohibited to you. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any other spell of 6th level or 
lower, provided the spell is not of a 
school prohibited to you. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell of 
7th level or lower even if it’s of a pro-
hibited school. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or 
lower even if it’s of a prohibited school.  
/rhombus4 Undo the harmful effects of many other 
spells, such as geas/quest or insanity. 
/rhombus4 Create a nonmagical item of up to 
25,000 gp in value. 
/rhombus4 Create a magic item, or add to the pow-
ers of an existing magic item. 
/rhombus4 Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to 
an ability score. Two to five wish spells 
cast in immediate succession can grant a 
creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an 
ability score (two wishes for a +2 in-
herent bonus, three for a +3 inherent 
bonus, and so on). Inherent bonuses are 
instantaneous, so they cannot be 
dispelled. Note: An inherent bonus may 
not exceed +5 for a single ability score, 
and inherent bonuses to a particular 
ability score do not stack, so only the 
best one applies. 
/rhombus4 Remove injuries and afflictions. A single 
wish can aid one creature per caster 
level, and all subjects are cured of the 
same kind of affliction. For example, 
you could heal all the damage you and 
your companions have taken, or remove 
all poison effects from everyone in the 
party, but not do both with the same 
wish. A wish can never restore the 
experience point loss from casting a 
spell or the level or Constitution loss 
from being raised from the dead. 
/rhombus4 Revive the dead. A wish can bring a dead 
creature back to life by duplicating a 
resurrection spell. A wish can revive a 
dead creature whose body has been 
destroyed, but the task takes two wishes, 
one to recreate the body and another to 
infuse the body with life again. A wish 
cannot prevent a character who was 
brought back to life from losing an 
experience level. 
/rhombus4 Transport travelers. A wish can lift one 
creature per caster level from anywhere 
on any plane and place those creatures 
anywhere else on any plane regardless 
of local conditions. An unwilling target 
gets a Will save to negate the effect, and 
spell resistance (if any) applies. 
/rhombus4 Undo misfortune. A wish can undo a 
single recent event. The wish forces a 
reroll of any roll made within the last 
round (including your last turn). Reality 
reshapes itself to accommodate the new 
result. For example, a wish could undo 
an opponent’s successful save, a foe’s 
successful critical hit (either the attack 
roll or the critical roll), a friend’s failed 
save, and so on. The reroll, however, 
may be as bad as or worse than the 
original roll. An unwilling target gets a 
Will save to negate the effect, and spell 
resistance (if any) applies. 
 
You may try to use a wish to produce 
greater effects than these, but doing so is 
dangerous. Such a wish gives the DM the 
opportunity to fulfil your request without 
fulfilling it completely. (The wish may 
pervert your intent into a literal but un-
desirable fulfillment or only a partial 
fulfillment.) For example, wishing for a 
staff of the magi  might get you instantly 
transported to the presence of the staff’s 
current owner. Wishing to be immortal 
could get you imprisioned in a hidden ex-
tradimensional space (as by an i mprison-
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 