 304 
General Guidelines 
and Glossary 
The general rules for what to do when rounding fractions and when 
several multipliers apply to a die roll (often encountered as what to 
do when doubling something that is already doubled) are provided 
below, followed by a glossary of game terms. 
 
ROUNDING FRACTIONS 
In general, if you wind up with a fraction, round down, even if the 
fraction is one-half or larger. For example, if a fireball deals you 17 
points of damage, but you succeed at your saving throw and only 
take half damage, you take 8 points of damage. 
Exception: Certain rolls, such as damage and hit points, have a 
minimum of 1. 
 
MULTIPLYING 
Sometimes a special rule makes you multiply a number or a die roll. 
As long as you’re applying a single multiplier, multiply the number 
normally. When two or more multipliers apply to any abstract value 
(such as a modifier or a die roll), however, combine them into a 
single multiple, with each extra multiple adding 1 less than its value 
to the first multiple. Thus, a double (×2) and a double (×2) applied to 
the same number results in a triple (×3, because 2 + 1 = 3). 
For example, Tordek, a high-level dwarven fighter, deals 1d8+6 
points of damage with a warhammer. On a critical hit, a warhammer 
deals triple damage, so that’s 3d8+18 damage for Tordek. A magic 
dwarven thrower  warhammer deals double damage (2d8+12 for 
Tordek) when thrown. If Tordek scores a critical hit while throwing 
the dwarven thrower, his player rolls quadruple damage 
(4d8+24) because 3 + 1 = 4. 
Another way to think of it is to convert the 
multiples into additions. Tordek’s critical hit 
increase his damage by 2d8+12, and the 
dwarven thrower ’s doubling of damage 
increases his damage by 1d8+6, so both of 
them together increase his damage by 3d8+18 
for a grand total of 4d8+24. 
When applying multipliers to real-world 
values (such as weight or distance), normal rules 
of math apply instead. A creature whose size doubles 
(thus multiplying its weight by 8) and then is turned to 
stone (which would multiply its weight by a factor of 
roughly 3) now weighs about 24 times normal, not 10 
times normal. Similarly, a blinded creature 
attempting to negotiate difficult terrain would 
count each square as 4 squares (doubling the cost 
twice, for a total multiplier of ×4), rather than as 
3 squares (adding 100% twice). 
 
GLOSSARY 
0-level spell:  A spell of the lowest 
possible level. Arcane spellcasters often 
call their 0-level spells “cantrips,” and 
divine spellcasters often call them “orisons.” 
5-foot step:  A small position adjustment that does 
not count as an action. Usually (but not always), a 5-foot 
step is permitted at any point in the round (such as 
before or after a full-round action, between attacks in a 
full attack, between a standard action and a move action, 
or between two move actions). You can’t take a 5-foot step 
in the same round that you move any distance. You can’t take a 5-
foot step if your movement is hampered, such as into a square of 
difficult terrain, in darkness, or when blinded. Taking a 5-foot step 
does not provoke an attack of opportunity, even if you move out of a 
threatened square. 
ability: One of the six basic character qualities: Strength (Str), 
Dexterity (Dex), Constitution (Con), Intelligence (Int), Wisdom 
(Wis), and Charisma (Cha). See ability score. 
ability check: A check of 1d20 + the appropriate ability modifier. 
ability damage:  A temporary loss of 1 or more ability score 
points. Lost points return at a rate of 1 point per day unless noted 
otherwise by the condition dealing the damage. A character with 
Strength 0 falls to the ground and is helpless. A character with 
Dexterity 0 is paralyzed. A character with Constitution 0 is dead. A 
Character with Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma 0 is unconscious. 
ability decrease:  A decrease in an ability score that ends when 
the condition causing it does. 
ability drain: A permanent loss of 1 or more ability score points. 
The character can only regain these points through magical means. 
A character with Strength 0 falls to the ground and is helpless. A 
character with Dexterity 0 is paralyzed. A character with 
Constitution 0 is dead. A Character with Intelligence, Wisdom, or 
Charisma 0 is unconscious. 
ability modifier:  The bonus or penalty associated with a par-
ticular ability score. Ability modifiers apply to die rolls for character 
actions involving the corresponding abilities. 
ability score:  The numeric rating of one of the six character 
abilities (see ability). Some creatures lack certain ability scores; 
others cannot be rated in particular abilities. 
action: A character activity. Actions are divided into the fol-
lowing categories, according to the time required to perform them 
(from most time required to least): full-round actions, standard 
actions, move actions, and free actions. 
adjacent: In a square that shares a border or a corner with a 
designated square. Each square is adjacent to eight other squares on 
the board. 
adventuring party:  A group of characters who adventure 
together. An adventuring party is composed of player characters 
plus any followers, familiars, animal companions, associ-
ates, cohorts, or hirelings they might have. 
alignment: One of the nine descrip-
tors of morality for intelligent 
creatures: lawful good 
(LG), neutral good 
(NG), chaotic 
good (CG), 
lawful neutral 
(LN), neutral (N), chaotic neutral (CN), lawful 
evil (LE), neutral evil (NE), and chaotic evil (CE). 
ally: A creature friendly to you. In most cases, 
references to “allies” include yourself. 
animal: A type of creature that includes 
all natural animals, dire animals, giant 
animals, and some other nonmagical 
vertebrate creatures (see the Monster Manual). 
Animals always have an Intelligence score of 1 
or 2. 
arcane spell failure:  The chance that a spell 
fails and is cast to no effect because the 
caster’s ability to use a somatic 
component was hampered by armor. 
Bards can ignore the arcane spell failure 
chance for light armor when casting bard 
spells. 
 
Lidda surprises