 306 
character: A fictional individual within the confines of a fantasy 
game setting. The words “character” and “creature” are often used 
synonymously within these rules, since almost any creature could 
be a character within the game, and every character is a creature (as 
opposed to an object). 
character class:  One of the eleven player character types—
barbarian, bard, cleric, druid, fighter, monk, paladin, ranger, rogue, 
sorcerer, or wizard. Class defines a character’s predominant talents 
and general function within an adventuring party. Character class 
may also refer to a nonplayer character class or a prestige class (see 
the Dungeon Master’s Guide). 
character level:  A character’s total level. For a character with 
levels in only one class, class level and character level are the same 
thing. 
check: A method of determining the result when a character 
attempts an action (other than an attack or a saving throw) that has a 
chance of failure. Checks are based on a relevant character ability, 
skill, or other characteristic. Most checks are either ability checks or 
skill checks, though special types such as turning checks, caster 
level checks, dispel checks, and initiative checks also exist. The 
specific name of the check usually corresponds to the skill or ability 
used. To make a check, roll 1d20 and add any relevant modifiers. 
(Higher results are always better.) If this check result equals or 
exceeds the Difficulty Class number assigned by the DM (or the 
opponent’s check, if the action is opposed) the check succeeds. 
checked: Prevented from achieving forward motion by an 
applied force, such as wind. Checked creatures on the ground 
merely stop. Checked flying creatures move back a distance spec-
ified in the description of the effect. 
circumstance bonus:  A bonus granted because of specific 
conditional factors favorable to the success of the task at hand. 
Circumstance bonuses stack with all other bonuses, including other 
circumstance bonuses, unless they arise from essentially the same 
benefit. For instance, a magnifying glass gives a +2 circumstance 
bonus on Appraise checks involving any item that is small or highly 
detailed, such as a gem. If you had a second tool that also granted a 
circumstance bonus from improved visual acuity (such as a jeweler’s 
loupe), the circumstance bonuses wouldn’t stack. 
class: See character class. 
class feature: Any special characteristic derived from a character 
class. 
class level:  A character’s level in a single class. Class features 
generally depend on class level rather than character level. 
class skill:  A skill to which characters of a particular class have 
easier access than characters of other classes. Characters may buy 
class skills at a rate of 1 rank per skill point, as opposed to 1/2 rank 
per skill point for cross-class skills. The maximum rank for a class 
skill is 3 + character’s level. 
cleric (Clr): A class made up of characters who cast divine spells 
and are also capable in combat. 
Colossal: A Colossal creature is typically 64 feet or more in 
height or length and weighs 250,000 pounds or more. 
comatose: Effectively in a state of suspended animation. A 
comatose creature is helpless. 
command word item: A magic item that activates when the user 
speaks a particular word or phrase. Activating a command word item 
does not require concentration and does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 
command undead:  The supernatural ability of evil clerics and 
some neutral clerics to control undead creatures by channeling 
negative energy. 
competence bonus:  A bonus that improves a character’s per-
formance at a particular task, such as from the bardic ability to in-
spire competence. Such a bonus may apply to attack rolls, saving 
throws, skill checks, caster level checks, or any other checks to 
which a bonus relating to level or skill ranks would normally apply. 
It does not apply on ability checks, damage rolls, initiative checks, or 
other rolls that aren’t related to a character’s level or skill ranks. 
Multiple competence bonuses don’t stack; only the highest bonus 
applies. 
concealment: Something that prevents an attacker from clearly 
seeing his or her target. Concealment creates a chance that an 
otherwise successful attack misses (a miss chance). 
concentrate on a spell: Concentrate to maintain an active spell’s 
effect. Concentrating on a spell is a standard action and provokes an 
attack of opportunity. 
confused: Befuddled and unable to determine a course of action due 
to a spell or magical effect. A confused character’s actions are 
determined by rolling d% at the beginning of his turn: 01–10, attack 
caster with melee or ranged weapons (or close with caster if 
attacking is not possible); 11–20, act normally; 21–50, do nothing 
but babble incoherently; 51–70, flee away from caster at top possible 
speed; 71–100, attack nearest creature (for this purpose, a familiar 
counts as part of the subject’s self). A confused character who can’t 
carry out the indicated action does nothing but babble incoherently. 
Attackers are not at any special advantage when attacking a confused 
character. Any confused character who is attacked automatically 
attacks its attackers on its next turn, as long as it is still confused when 
its turn comes. A confused character does not make attacks of 
opportunity against any creature that it is not already devoted to 
attacking (either because of its most recent action or because it has 
just been attacked). 
Constitution (Con):  The ability that represents a character’s 
health and stamina. 
continuous damage: Damage from a single attack that continues 
to deal damage every round without the need for additional attack 
rolls. 
copper piece (cp):  The most prevalent form of currency among 
beggars and laborers. Ten copper pieces are equivalent to 1 silver 
piece. 
coup de grace:  A full-round action that allows an attacker to 
attempt a killing blow against a helpless opponent. A coup de grace 
can be administered with a melee weapon or with a bow or crossbow 
if the attacker is adjacent to the opponent. An attacker delivering a 
coup de grace automatically scores a critical hit, after which the 
defender must make a successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + damage 
dealt) or die. Rogues also gain their extra sneak attack damage for 
this attack. Delivering a coup de grace provokes attacks of oppor-
tunity from threatening foes. A coup de grace is not possible against 
a creature immune to critical hits. 
cover: Any barrier between an attacker and defender. Such a 
barrier can be an object, a creature, or a magical force. Cover grants 
the defender a bonus to Armor Class. 
cowering: Frozen in fear and unable to take actions. A cowering 
character takes a –2 penalty to Armor Class and loses her Dexterity 
bonus (if any). 
creature: A living or otherwise active being, not an object. The 
terms “creature” and “character” are sometimes used interchange-
ably. 
creature type: One of several broad categories of creatures. The 
creature types are aberration, animal, construct, dragon, elemental, 
fey, giant, humanoid, magical beast, monstrous humanoid, ooze, 
outsider, plant, undead, and vermin. (See the Monster Manual for full 
descriptions.) 
critical hit (crit): A hit that strikes a vital area and therefore deals 
double damage or more. To score a critical hit, an attacker must first 
score a threat (usually a natural 20 on an attack roll) and then 
succeed on a critical roll (just like another attack roll). Critical hit 
damage is usually double damage, which means rolling damage 
twice, just as if the attacker had actually hit the defender two times. 
(Any extra damage dice, such as from a rogue’s sneak attack, are not 
rolled multiple times, but are added to the total at the end of the 
calculation.) 