 308 
from either of their domains. Domain spells cannot be exchanged 
for cure or inflict spells. 
double weapon: A weapon with two ends, blades, or heads that 
are both intended for use in combat. Any weapon for which two 
damage ranges are listed is a double weapon. Double weapons can be 
used to make an extra attack as if the wielder were fighting with two 
weapons (light weapon in the off hand). 
druid (Drd):  A class made up of characters who draw energy 
from the natural world to cast divine spells and gain special magical 
powers. 
Dungeon Master (DM):  The player who portrays nonplayer 
characters, makes up the story setting for the other players, and 
serves as a referee. 
dying: Unconscious and near death. A dying character has –1 to –
9 current hit points, can take no actions, and is unconscious. Each 
round on her turn, a dying character rolls d% to see whether she 
becomes stable. She has a 10% chance of becoming stable. If she 
does not, she loses 1 hit point. If a dying character reaches –10 hit 
points, she is dead. 
effective hit point increase:  Hit points gained through tem-
porary increases in Constitution score. Unlike temporary hit points, 
points gained in this manner are not lost first, and must be 
subtracted from the character’s current hit points at the time the 
Constitution increase ends. 
electrum: A naturally-occurring alloy of gold and silver. 
Elemental Plane:  One of the Inner Planes consisting almost 
entirely of one type of element: air, earth, fire, or water. 
end of round:  The point in a combat round when all the par-
ticipants have completed all their allowed actions. End of round 
occurs when no one else involved in the combat has an action 
pending for that round. 
enemy: A creature unfriendly to you. 
energy damage:  Damage caused by one of five types of energy 
(not counting positive and negative energy): acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, and sonic. 
energy drain: An attack that saps a creature’s vital energy giving 
it negative levels, which might permanently drain the creature’s 
levels. 
Energy Plane: An Inner Plane, either the Positive Energy Plane 
or the Negative Energy Plane. 
engaged: Threatening or being threatened by an enemy. 
(Unconscious, or otherwise immobilized characters are not con-
sidered engaged unless they are actually being attacked.) 
enhancement bonus: A bonus that represents an increase in the 
sturdiness and/or effectiveness of armor or natural armor, or the 
effectiveness of a weapon, or a general bonus to an ability score. 
Multiple enhancement bonuses on the same object (in the case of 
armor and weapons), creature (in the case of natural armor). Or 
ability score do not stack. Only the highest enhancement bonus 
applies. Since enhancement bonuses to armor or natural armor 
effectively increase the armor or natural armor’s bonus to AC, they 
don’t apply against touch attacks. 
entangled: Ensnared. Being entangled impedes movement, but 
does not entirely prevent it unless the bonds are anchored to an 
immobile object or tethered by an opposing force. An entangled 
creature moves at half speed, cannot run or charge, and takes a –2 
penalty on attack rolls and a –4 penalty to its effective Dexterity 
score. An entangled character who attempts to cast a spell must 
make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the spell’s level) or lose the 
spell. 
ethereal: On the Ethereal Plane. An ethereal creature is invisible 
and intangible to creatures on the Material Plane, but visible and 
corporeal to creatures on the Ethereal Plane. As such, such a 
creature is capable of moving through solid on the Material Plane, 
and in any direction (even up or down), though all movement is at 
half speed. Ethereal beings can see and hear what is happening in 
the same area of the Material Plane to a distance of 60 feet, but 
everything looks gray and insubstantial. Force effects originating on 
the Material Plane can affect items and creatures that are ethereal, 
but the reverse is not true. 
Ethereal Plane: A gray, foggy plane parallel to the Material Plane 
at all points. Creatures within the Ethereal Plane can see and hear 
into the Material Plane to a distance of 60 feet, though the reverse is 
not usually true. Force effects originating on the Material Plane can 
affect items and creatures on the Ethereal Plane, but the reverse is 
not true. Because the Ethereal Plane is often used for travel, it is also 
considered a transitive plane (like the Astral Plane and the Plane of 
Shadow). 
exhausted: Tired to the point of significant impairment. An 
exhausted character moves at half speed and takes a –6 penalty to 
Strength and Dexterity. After 1 hour of complete rest, an exhausted 
character becomes fatigued. A fatigued character becomes exhausted 
by doing something else that would normally cause fatigue. 
experience points (XP):  A numerical measure of a character’s 
personal achievement and advancement. Characters earn experience 
points by defeating opponents and by overcoming challenges. At 
the end of each adventure, the DM assigns experience to the 
characters based on what they have accomplished. Characters 
continue to accumulate experience points throughout their 
adventuring careers, gaining new levels in their character classes at 
certain experience totals. 
extraordinary ability (Ex):  A nonmagical special ability (as 
opposed to a spell-like or supernatural ability). 
extraplanar: Native to a plane of existence other than the plane 
on which a creature is present. On the Material Plane, an outsider is 
an extraplanar creature. On an outsider’s home plane, a native of the 
Material Plane is an extraplanar creature. 
failure: An unsuccessful result on a check, saving throw, or other 
determination involving a die roll. 
fascinated: Entranced by a supernatural or spell effect. A fasci-
nated creature stands or sits quietly, taking no actions other than to 
pay attention to the fascinating effects, for as long as the effect lasts. 
It takes a–4 penalty on skill checks made as reactions, such as Listen 
and Spot checks. Any potential threat, such as a hostile creature 
approaching, allows the fascinated creature a new saving throw 
against the fascinating effect. Any obvious threat, such as a someone 
drawing a weapon, casting a spell, or aiming a ranged weapon at the 
fascinated creature, automatically breaks the effect. A fascinated 
creature’s ally may shake it free of the effect as a standard action. 
fatigued: Tired to the point of impairment. A fatigued character 
can neither run nor charge and takes a –2 penalty to Strength and 
Dexterity. Doing anything that would normally cause fatigue causes 
the fatigued character to become exhausted. After 8 hours of 
complete rest, fatigued characters are no longer fatigued. 
fear effect: Any spell or magical effect that causes the victim to 
become shaken, frightened, or panicked, or to suffer from some 
other fear-based effect defined in the description of the specific spell 
or item in question. 
fighter (Ftr): A class made up of characters who have exceptional 
combat capability and unequalled skill with weapons. 
Fine: A Fine creature is typically 6 inches or less in height or 
length and weighs 1/8 pound or less. 
flank: To be directly on the other side of a character who is being 
threatened by another character. A flanking attacker gains a +2 
flanking bonus on attack rolls against the defender. A rogue can 
sneak attack a defender that is flanking. 
flat-footed: Especially vulnerable to attacks at the beginning of a 
battle. Characters are flat-footed until their first turns in the 
initiative cycle. A flat-footed creature loses its Dexterity bonus to 
Armor Class (if any) and cannot make attacks of opportunity. 
force damage:  A special type of damage dealt by force effects, 
such as a magic missile  spell. A force effect can strike incorporeal 