 309
creatures without the normal miss chance associated with incor-
poreality. 
Fortitude save:  A type of saving throw, related to a character’s 
ability to withstand damage thanks to his physical stamina. 
free action:  Free actions consume a negligible amount of time, 
and one or more such actions can be performed in conjunction with 
actions of other types. 
frightened: Fearful of a creature, situation, or object. A fright-
ened creature flees from the source of its fear as best it can. If unable 
to flee, it may fight. A frightened creature takes a –2 penalty on all 
attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks. A 
frightened creature can use special abilities, including spells, to flee; 
indeed, the creature must use such means if they are the only way to 
escape. 
full normal hit points:  An individual character’s maximum hit 
points when undamaged. 
full-round attack:  Full-round actions consume all of a charac-
ter’s effort during a round. The only movement possible in con-
junction with a full-round action is a 5-foot step, which can occur 
before, after, or during the action. Some full-round actions (as 
specified in their descriptions) do not allow even this much 
movement. When using a full-round action to cast a spell whose 
casting is 1 round, the spell is not completed until the beginning of 
the caster’s next turn. 
Gargantuan: A Gargantuan creature is between 32 and 64 feet in 
height or length and weighs between 32,000 and 250,000 pounds. 
gold piece (gp):  The primary unit of currency used by adven-
turers. 
grab: The initial attack required to start a grapple. To grab a target, 
the character must make a successful melee touch attack. 
granted power: The special ability a cleric gain from each of his 
selected domains. 
grapple check: An opposed check that determines a character’s 
ability to struggle in a grapple. Grapple check = 1d20 + base attack 
modifier + Strength modifier + special size modifier. (+4 for every 
size category larger than Medium or –4 for every size category 
smaller than Medium). 
grappling: Engaged in wrestling or some other form of hand-to-
hand struggle with one or more attackers. A grappling character can 
undertake only a limited number of actions. He does not threaten 
any squares, and loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) against 
opponents he isn’t grappling. For creatures, grappling can also mean 
trapping opponents in any number of ways (in a toothy maw, under 
a huge paw, and so on). 
half speed: When restricted to moving at half speed, count each 
square moved into as 2 squares, and every square of diagonal 
movement as 3 squares. If you are restricted to half speed, you can’t 
run or charge, nor can you take a 5-foot step. 
hardness: A measure of an object’s ability to resist damage. Only 
damage in excess of the object’s hardness is actually deducted from 
the object’s hit points upon a successful attack. 
helpless: Paralyzed, held, bound, sleeping, unconscious, or oth-
erwise completely at an opponent’s mercy. A helpless target is 
treated as having a Dexterity of 0 (–5 modifier). Melee attacks 
against a helpless target get a +4 bonus. An attacker can use a coup 
de grace against a helpless target. 
hit: Make a successful attack roll. 
Hit Die/Dice (HD): In the singular form, a die rolled to generate 
hit points. In the plural form, a measure of relative power that is 
synonymous with character level for the sake of spells, magic items, 
and magical effects that affect a certain number of Hit Dice of 
creatures. 
hit points (hp):  A measure of a character’s health or an object’s 
integrity. Damage decreases current hit points, and lost hit points 
return with healing or natural recovery. A character’s hit point total 
increases permanently with additional experience and/or perma-
nent increases in Constitution, or temporarily through the use of 
various special abilities, spells, magic items, or magical effects (see 
temporary hit points and effective hit point increase). 
Huge: A Huge creature is typically between 16 and 32 feet in 
height or length and weighs between 4,000 and 32,000 pounds. 
incorporeal: Having no physical body. Incorporeal creatures are 
immune to all nonmagical attack forms. They can be harmed only by 
other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, spells, 
spell-like effects, or supernatural effects. Even when struck by spells, 
magical effects, or magic weapons, however, they have a 50% chance 
to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. In addition, rogues 
cannot employ sneak attacks against incorporeal beings, since such 
opponents have no vital areas to target. An incorporeal creature has 
no armor or natural armor bonus (or loses any armor or natural 
armor bonus it may have when corporeal), but it gains a deflection 
bonus equal to its Charisma modifier or +1, whichever is greater. 
Such creatures can move in any direction and even pass through 
solid objects at will, but not through force effects. Therefore, their 
attacks negate the bonuses provided by natural armor, armor, and 
shields, but deflection bonuses and force effects (such as mage 
armor) work normally against them. Incorporeal creatures have no 
weight, do not leave footprints, have no scent and make no noise, so 
they cannot be heard with Listen checks unless they wish it. 
Incorporeal creatures cannot fall or take falling damage. 
inflict spell:  A spell with the word “inflict” in its name, such as 
inflict light wounds , inflict moderate wounds , or mass inflict critical 
wounds. 
inherent bonus:  A bonus to an ability score resulting from 
powerful magic, such as a wish. Inherent bonuses cannot be dis-
pelled. A character is limited to a total inherent bonus of +5 to any 
ability score. Multiple inherent bonuses to a particular ability score 
do not stack, so only the best one applies. 
initiative: A system of determining the order of actions in battle. 
Before the first round of combat, each combatant makes a single 
initiative check. Each round, the participants act in order from the 
highest initiative result to the lowest. 
initiative check: A check used to determine a creature’s place in 
the initiative order for a combat. An initiative check is 1d20 + Dex 
modifier + other modifiers. 
initiative count: The result of an initiative check, expressed as a 
number that indicates when a character’s turn comes up. 
initiative modifier: A bonus or penalty to initiative checks. 
Inner Plane: One of several portions of the planar landscape that 
contain the primal forces—those energies and elements that make 
up the building blocks of reality. The Elemental Planes and the 
Energy Planes are Inner Planes. 
insight bonus:  An insight bonus improves performance of a 
given activity by granting the character an almost precognitive 
knowledge of what might occur. Multiple insight bonuses on the 
same character or object do not stack. Only the highest insight 
bonus applies. 
Intelligence (Int):  The ability that determines how well a 
character learns and reasons. 
invisible: Visually undetectable. An invisible creature gains a +2 
bonus on attack rolls against sighted opponents, and ignores its 
opponents’ Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). (Invisibility has no effect 
against blinded or otherwise nonsighted creatures.) An invisible 
creature’s location cannot be pinpointed by visual means. It has total 
concealment; even if an attacker correctly guesses the invisible 
creature’s location, the attacker has a 50% miss chance in combat. 
An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if 
immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if moving. Locating the 
square an invisible creature occupies requires a Spot check (DC 40 if 
the creature is immobile, DC 20 if the creature moved during its last 