 310 
turn), modified by appropriate factors (such as an amor check 
penalty or a penalty for movement). 
kind: A subcategory of creature type. For example, giant is a 
creature type, and hill giant is a kind of giant. 
known spell:  A spell that an arcane spellcaster has learned and 
can prepare. For wizards, knowing a spell means having it in their 
spellbooks. For sorcerers and bards, knowing a spell means having 
selected it when acquiring new spells as a benefit of level 
advancement. 
Large: A Large creature is typically between 8 and 16 feet in 
height or length and weighs between 500 and 4,000 pounds. 
lethal damage: Damage that reduces a creature’s hit points. 
level: A measure of advancement or power applied to several 
areas of the game. See caster level, character level, class level, and 
spell level. 
light weapon:  A weapon suitable for use in the wielder’s off 
hand, such as a dagger. A light weapon is considered to be an object 
two size categories smaller than its designated wielder (for example, 
a Medium dagger is a Tiny object). 
line of effect:  Line of effect tells you whether an effect (such as 
an explosion) can reach a creature. Line of effect is just like line of 
sight, except line of effect ignores restrictions on visual ability. For 
instance, a fireball’s explosion doesn’t care if a creature is invisible or 
hiding in darkness. 
line of sight:  Two creatures can see each other if they have line 
of sight to each other. To determine line of sight, draw an imaginary 
line between your space and the target’s space. If any such line is 
clear (not blocked), then you have line of sight to the creature (and it 
has line of sight to you). The line is clear if it doesn’t intersect or 
even touch squares that block line of sight. If you can’t see the target 
(for instance, if you’re blind or the target is invisible), you can’t have 
line of sight to it even if you could draw an unblocked line between 
your space and the target’s. 
low-light vision:  The ability to see in conditions of dim illu-
mination as if the illumination were actually as bright as daylight. 
luck bonus:  A modifier that represents good fortune. Multiple 
luck bonuses on the same character or object do not stack. Only the 
highest luck bonus applies. 
massive damage: At least 50 points of damage resulting from a 
single attack. 
masterwork: Exceptionally well-made, generally providing a +1 
enhancement bonus on attack rolls (if the item is a weapon or 
ammunition), reducing the armor check penalty by 1 (if the item is 
armor or a shield), or adding +2 to relevant skill checks (if the item is 
a tool). 
Material Plane: The “normal” plane of existence. 
Medium: A Medium creature is typically between 4 and 8 feet in 
height or length and weighs between 60 and 500 pounds. 
melee: Melee combat consists of physical blows exchanged by 
opponents close enough to threaten one another’s space as opposed 
to ranged combat. 
melee attack: A physical attack suitable for close combat. 
melee attack bonus: A modifier applied to a melee attack roll. 
melee attack roll:  An attack roll during melee combat, as 
opposed to a ranged attack roll. See attack roll. 
melee touch attack: A touch attack made in melee, as opposed to 
a ranged touch attack. See touch attack. 
melee weapon: A handheld weapon designed for close combat. 
miniature figure:  The physical representation of a creature or 
character on the battle grid; a three-dimensional figure. 
miss chance:  The possibility that a successful attack roll misses 
anyway because of the attacker’s uncertainty about the target’s 
location. See concealment. 
miss chance roll: A d% to determine the success of an attack roll 
to which a miss chance applies. 
modifier: Any bonus or penalty applying to a die roll. A positive 
modifier is a bonus, and a negative modifier is a penalty. Modifiers 
from the same source do not stack, and modifiers with specific 
descriptors generally do not stack with others of the same type. If 
more than one modifier of a type is present, only the best bonus or 
worst penalty in that grouping applies. Bonuses or penalties that do 
not have descriptors stack with those that do. 
monk (Mnk):  A class made up of characters who are masters of 
the martial arts and have a number of exotic powers. 
morale bonus: A bonus representing the effects of greater hope, 
courage, and determination. Multiple morale bonuses on the same 
character do not stack. Only the highest morale bonus applies. 
Nonintelligent creatures (creatures with an Intelligence of 0 or no 
Intelligence at all) cannot benefit from moral bonuses. 
move action:  An action that is the equivalent of the character 
moving his speed. Move actions include standing up from prone, 
drawing or sheathing a weapon, opening a door, loading a light 
crossbow, and moving your speed. In a typical round, a character can 
take a move action and a standard action, or he can take a second 
move action in place of his standard action. 
mundane: Normal, commonplace, or everyday. Also used as a 
synonym for “nonmagical.” 
natural: A natural result on a roll or check is the actual number 
appearing on the die, not the modified result obtained by adding 
bonuses or subtracting penalties. 
natural ability:  A nonmagical capability, such as walking, 
swimming (for aquatic creatures), and flight (for winged creatures). 
natural armor bonus:  A bonus to Armor Class resulting from a 
creature’s naturally tough hide. Natural armor’s bonuses stack with 
all other bonuses to Armor Class (even with armor bonuses) except 
other natural armor bonuses. Some magical effects (such as the 
barkskin spell) grant an enhancement bonus to the creature’s 
existing natural armor bonus, which has the effect of increasing the 
natural armor’s overall bonus to Armor Class. A natural armor bonus 
doesn’t apply against touch attacks. 
natural reach:  The distance from which a creature can make a 
melee attack. The creature threatens all squares within that distance 
from its space. 
nauseated: Experiencing stomach distress. Nauseated creatures 
are unable to attack, cast spells, concentrate on spells, or do anything 
else requiring attention. The only action such a character can take is 
a single move action per turn, plus free actions (except for casting 
quickened spells). 
negate: Invalidate, prevent, or end an effect with respect to a 
designated area or target. 
negative energy: A black, crackling energy that originates on the 
Negative Material Plane. In general, negative energy heals undead 
creatures and hurts the living. 
Negative Energy Plane:  The Inner Plane from which negative 
energy originates. 
negative level: A loss of vital energy resulting from energy drain, 
spells, magic items, or magical effects. For each negative level 
gained, a creature takes a –1 penalty on all attack rolls, saving 
throws, skill checks, and ability checks, loses 5 hit points, and takes a 
–1 penalty to effective level. (That is, whenever the creature’s level is 
used in a die roll or calculation, reduce its value by 1 for each 
negative level.) In addition, a spellcaster loses one spell or spell slot  
from the highest spell level castable. If two or more spells fit this 
criterion, the caster decides which one becomes inaccessible. The 
lost spell becomes available again as soon as the negative level is 
removed, providing the caster would be capable of using it at that 
time. Negative levels remain in place for 24 hours after acquisition, 
or until removed. After that period, the negative level goes away, but 
the afflicted creature must make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the 
attacker’s Hit Dice + the attacker’s Cha modifier) to determine 