 311
whether there is a lasting effect. If the saving throw succeeds, there 
is no harm to the character. Otherwise, the creature’s character level 
drops by one and any benefits acquired with that level are lost. The 
afflicted creature must make a separate saving throw for each 
negative level possessed. 
nonintelligent: Lacking an Intelligence score. Mind-affecting 
spells do not affect nonintelligent creatures, nor can nonintelligent 
creatures benefit from morale bonuses. 
nonlethal damage: Damage typically resulting from an unarmed 
attack, an armed attack delivered with intent to subdue, a forced 
march, or a debilitating condition such as heat or starvation. 
nonplayer character (NPC):  A character controlled by the 
Dungeon Master rather than by one of the other players in a game 
session, as opposed to a player character. 
off hand:  A character’s weaker or less dexterous hand (usually 
the left). An attack made with the off hand incurs a –4 penalty on 
the attack roll. In addition, only one-half of a character’s Strength 
bonus may be added to the damage dealt with a weapon held in the 
off hand. 
one-handed weapon:  A weapon designed for use in one hand, 
such as a longsword, often either along with a shield or a light 
weapon in the other hand. A one-handed weapon is considered to be 
an object one size category smaller than its designated wielder (for 
example, a Medium longsword is a Small object). 
orison: A divine 0-level spell. 
Outer Plane: One of several planes of existence where spirits of 
mortal beings go after death. These planes are the homes of 
powerful beings, such as demons, devils, and deities. Individual 
Outer Planes typically exhibit the traits of one or two specific 
alignments associated with the beings who control them. 
overlap: Coexist with another effect or modifier in the same area 
or on the same target. Bonuses that do not stack with each other 
overlap instead, such that only the largest bonus provides its benefit. 
paladin (Pal): A class made up of characters who are champions 
of justice and destroyers of evil, with an array of divine powers. 
panicked: A panicked creature must drop anything it holds and 
flee at top speed from the source of its fear, as well as any other 
dangers it encounters, along a random path. It can’t take any other 
actions. In addition, the creature takes a –2 morale penalty on saving 
throws, skill checks, and ability checks. If cornered, a panicked 
creature cowers and does not attack, typically using the total defense 
action in combat. A panicked creature can use special abilities, 
including spells, to flee; indeed, the creature must use such means if 
they are the only way to escape. 
paralyzed: Frozen in place and unable to move or act, such as by 
the hold person  spell. A paralyzed character has effective Dexterity 
and Strength scores of 0 and is helpless, but can take purely mental 
actions. A winged creature flying in the air at the time that it 
becomes paralyzed cannot flap its wings and falls. A paralyzed 
swimmer can’t swim and may drown. A creature can move through a 
space occupied by a paralyzed creature—ally or not. Each square 
occupied by a paralyzed creature, however, counts as 2 squares. 
party: A group of adventurers. 
petrified: Turned to stone. Petrified characters are considered 
unconscious. If a petrified character cracks or breaks, but the broken 
pieces are joined with the body as it returns to flesh, he is 
unharmed. Otherwise, the DM must assign some amount of per-
manent hit point loss and/or debilitation. 
pinned: Held immobile (but not helpless) in a grapple. 
 
 
 
 
plane of existence:  One of many dimensions that may be 
accessed by spells, spell-like abilities, magic items, or specific crea-
tures. These planes include (but are not limited to) the Astral Plane, 
the Ethereal Plane, the Inner Planes, the Outer Planes, the Plane of 
Shadow, and various other realities. The “normal” world is part of 
the Material Plane. 
Plane of Shadow: A plane of existence that pervades the Material 
Plane. The Plane of Shadow may be accessed and manipulated from 
the Material Plane through shadows. Shadow spells make use of the 
substance of this plane in their casting. Since some creatures use the 
Plane of Shadow to travel from place to place, it is often described as 
a transitive plane (like the Astral Plane and Ethereal Plane). 
platinum piece (pp):  A form of currency not in common 
circulation but occasionally found as treasure. One platinum piece is 
equivalent to 10 gold pieces. 
player character (PC):  A character controlled by a player other 
than the Dungeon Master, as opposed to a nonplayer character. 
point of origin:  The location in space where a spell or magical 
effect begins. The caster designates the point of origin for any spells 
in which it is variable. 
points of damage:  A number by which an attack reduces a 
character’s current hit points. 
positive energy: A white, luminous energy that originates on the 
Positive Material Plane. In general, positive energy heals the living 
and hurts undead creatures. 
Positive Energy Plane:  The Inner Plane from which positive 
energy originates. 
prerequisite: A requirement that must be met before a given 
benefit can be gained. 
profane bonus:  A bonus that stems from the power of evil. 
Multiple profane bonuses on the same character or object do not 
stack. Only the highest profane bonus applies. 
projectile weapon: A device, such as a bow, that uses mechanical 
force to propel a projectile toward a target. 
prone: Lying on the ground. An attacker who is prone has a –4 
penalty on melee attack rolls and cannot used a ranged weapon 
(except for a crossbow). A defender who is prone gains a +4 bonus to 
Armor Class against ranged attacks, but takes a –4 penalty to AC 
against melee attacks. 
racial bonus: A bonus granted because of the culture a particular 
creature was brought up in or because of innate characteristics of 
that type of creature. If a creature’s race changes (for instance, if it 
dies and is reincarnated), it loses all racial bonuses it had in its 
previous form. 
range increment:  Each full range increment of distance be-
tween an attacker using a ranged weapon and a target gives the 
attacker a cumulative –2 penalty on the ranged attack roll. Thrown 
weapons have a maximum range of five range increments. Projectile 
weapons have a maximum range of ten range increments. 
range penalty: A penalty applied to a ranged attack roll based on 
distance. See range increment. 
ranged attack:  Any attack made at a distance with a ranged 
weapon, as opposed to a melee attack. 
ranged attack roll:  An attack roll made with a ranged weapon. 
See attack roll. 
ranged touch attack:  A touch attack made at range, as opposed 
to a melee touch attack. See touch attack. 
ranged weapon:  A thrown or projectile weapon designed for 
ranged attacks. 
ranger (Rgr): A class made up of characters who are particularly 
skilled at adventuring in the wilderness. 
ray: A beam created by a spell. The caster must succeed on a 
ranged touch attack to hit with a ray. 
reach weapon: A long melee weapon, or one that has a long haft. 
Reach weapons allow the user to threaten or strike at opponents 10 