 313
spell level:  A number from 0 to 9 that indicates the general 
power of a spell. 
spell-like ability (Sp): A special ability with effects that resemble 
those of a spell. In most cases, a spell-like ability works just like the 
spell of the same name. 
spell preparation:  Part of the spellcasting process for wizards, 
clerics, paladins, rangers, and druids. Preparing a spell requires 
careful reading from a spellbook (for wizards) or devout prayers or 
meditation (for divine spellcasters). The character actually casts the 
first and lengthiest part of the spell during the preparation phase, 
leaving only the very end for completion at another time. To use a 
prepared spell, the character finishes the casting with the 
appropriate spell components—a few special words, some complex 
gestures, a specific item, or a combination of the three. A prepared 
spell is used up once cast and cannot be cast again until the 
spellcaster prepares it again. Sorcerers and bards need not prepare 
their spells. 
spell resistance (SR):  A special defensive ability that allows a 
creature or item to resist the effects of spells and spell-like abilities. 
Supernatural abilities are not subject to spell resistance. To 
overcome a creature’s spell resistance, the caster of the spell or spell-
like ability must equal or exceed the creature’s spell resistance with a 
caster level check. 
spell slot: The “space” in a spellcaster’s mind dedicated to hold-
ing a spell of a particular spell level. A spellcaster has enough spell 
slots to accommodate an entire day’s allotment of spells. Spellcasters 
who must prepare their spells in advance generally fill their spell 
slots during the preparation period, though a few slots can be left 
open for spells prepared later in the day. A spellcaster can always opt 
to fill a higher-level spell slot with a lower-level spell, if desired. 
spell trigger item: A magic item (such as a wand) that produces a 
particular spell effect. Any spellcaster whose class spell list includes 
a particular spell knows how to use a spell trigger item that 
duplicates it, regardless of whether the character knows (or could 
know) that spell at the time. The user must determine what the spell 
stored in the item is before trying to use it. To activate the item, the 
user must speak a word, but no gesture or spell finishing is required. 
Activating a spell trigger item is a standard action and does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. 
spell version:  One of several variations of the same spell. The 
caster must select the desired version of the spell at the time of 
casting. Lesser 
restoration, dispel 
magic, and create un-
dead are examples of 
spells with multiple 
versions. 
spellcaster: A 
character capable of 
casting spells. 
splash weapon:  A ranged 
weapon that splashes on impact, 
dealing damage to creatures who are 
within 5 feet of the spot where it lands as well as to targets it actually 
hits. Attacks with splash weapons are ranged touch attacks. 
spontaneous casting:  The special ability of a cleric to drop a 
prepared spell (but not a domain spell) to gain a cure or inflict spell of 
the same level or lower, or of a druid to drop a prepared spell to gain 
a summon nature’s ally  spell of the same level or lower. Since the 
substitution of spells occurs on the spur of the moment, clerics need 
not prepare their cure or inflict spells in advance, nor do druids need 
to prepare their summon nature’s ally spells in advance. 
square: A square on the battle grid. A square is 1 inch on a side 
and represents a 5-foot-by-5-foot area. The terms “1 square” and “5 
feet” are generally interchangeable. 
stable: Unconscious and having a current hit point total between 
–1 and –9, but not dying. A dying character who is stable retains no 
hit points, but stops losing them at a rate of 1 per round. 
stack: Combine for a cumulative effect. In most cases, modifiers 
to a given check or roll stack if they come from different sources and 
have different descriptors (or no descriptors at all), but do not stack 
if they have the same descriptors or come from the same source 
(such as the same spell cast twice in succession). If the modifiers to a 
particular roll do not stack, only the best bonus or worst penalty 
applies. Dodge bonuses and circumstance bonus however, do stack 
with one another unless otherwise specified. Spell effected that do 
not stack may overlap, coexist independently, or render one another 
irrelevant, depending on their exact effects. 
staggered: Having nonlethal damage exactly equal to current hit 
points. A staggered character may take a single move action or 
standard action each round (but not both, nor can she take full-
round actions). 
standard action:  The most basic type of action. Common 
standard actions include making a melee or ranged attack, casting a 
spell, and using a magic item. In a typical round, a character can take 
a standard action and a move action, but he can’t take a second 
standard action in place of his move action. 
Strength (Str): The ability that measures a character’s muscle and 
physical power. 
stunned: A stunned creature drops everything held, can’t take 
actions, takes a –2 penalty to AC, and loses his 
Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). 
subject: A creature affected by a spell. 
subschool: A category of spells with-
in a school of magic. For example, 
charm and compulsion are sub-
schools within the school 
of enchantment. 
subtype: A subdivision 
of creature type. For exam-
ple, humans and elves are both 
of the humanoid type, but each 
of those races also constitutes its 
own subtype of humanoid. 
 
Jozan brings a friend back
from the dead 