 314 
supernatural ability (Su):  A magical power that produces a 
particular effect, as opposed to a natural, extraordinary, or spell-like 
ability. Using a supernatural ability generally does not provoke an 
attack or opportunity. Supernatural abilities are not subject to 
dispelling, disruption or spell resistance. However, they do not 
function in areas where magic is suppressed or negated, such as 
inside an antimagic field. 
suppress: Cause a magical effect to cease functioning without 
actually ending it. When the supression ends, the spell effect is 
returns, provided it has not expired in the meantime. 
surprise: A special situation that occurs at the beginning of a 
battle if some (but not all) combatants are unaware of their oppo-
nents’ presence. In this case, a surprise round happens before 
regular rounds begin. In initiative order (highest to lowest), those 
combatants who started the battle aware of their opponents each 
take a partial action during the surprise round. Creatures unaware of 
opponents are flat-footed through the entire surprise round and do 
not enter the initiative cycle until the first regular combat round.  
take damage: Be affected by damage (either lethals or nonlethal) 
from a successful attack. Damage dealt by an opponent does not 
necessarily equal damage taken, as various special defenses may 
reduce or negate damage from certain kinds of attacks. 
take 10: To reduce the chances of failure on certain skill checks 
by assuming an average die roll result (10 on a d20 roll). You can’t 
take 10 if distracted or threatened, such as during combat. 
take 20: To assume that a character makes sufficient retries to 
obtain the maximum possible check result (as if a 20 were rolled on 
d20). Taking 20 takes as much time as making twenty separate skill 
checks (usually at least 2 minutes). Taking 20 assumes that the 
character fails many times before succeeding, and thus can’t be used 
if failure carries negative consequences. 
target: The intended recipient of an attack, spell, supernatural 
ability, extraordinary ability, or magical effect. If a targeted spell is 
successful, its recipient is known as the subject of the spell. 
temporary hit points:  Hit points gained for a limited time 
through certain spells (such as aid) and magical effects. When a 
character with temporary hit points is dealt damage, deduct the 
damage from temporary hit points first, then deduct any remaining 
damage (if any) to the character’s actual (nontemporary) hit points. 
Temporary hit points can cause a character’s hit point total to exceed 
its normal maximum. 
threat: A possible critical hit. 
threat range: All natural die roll results that constitute in a threat 
when rolled for an attack roll. For most weapons, the threat range is 
20, but some weapons have threat ranges of 19–20 or even 18–20. 
Any attack roll that does not result in a hit is not a threat, whether or 
not it lies within the weapon’s threat range. 
threaten: To be able to attack in melee without moving from 
your current space. A creature typically threatens all squares within 
its natural reach, even when it is not its turn to take an action. For 
Medium or Small creature this usually includes all squares adjacent 
to its space. Larger creatures threaten more squares, while smaller 
creatures may not threaten any squares except their own. 
threatened square:  A square within an opponent’s reach. Gen-
erally, characters threaten all adjacent squares, though reach 
weapons can alter this range. Certain actions provoke attack of 
opportunity when taken within a threatened square. 
thrown weapon: A ranged weapon that a character hurls at an 
enemy, such as a spear, as opposed to a projectile weapon. 
Tiny: A Tiny creature is typically between 1 and 2 feet in height 
or length and weighs between 1 and 8 pounds. 
total concealment:  Attacks against a target with total conceal-
ment have a 50% miss chance. Total concealment blocks line of 
sight. See concealment. 
 
total cover:  Attacks against a target that has total cover auto-
matically fail. Total cover blocks line of sight and line of effect. See 
cover. 
touch attack: An attack in which the attacker must connect with 
an opponent, but does not need to penetrate armor. Touch attacks 
may be either melee or ranged. The target’s armor bonus, shield 
bonus, and natural armor bonus (including any enhancement 
bonuses to those values) do not apply to AC against a touch attack. 
touch spell:  A spell that delivers its effect when the caster 
touches a target creature or object. Touch spells are delivered to 
unwilling targets by touch attacks. 
trained: Having at least 1 rank in a skill. Many skills can be used 
untrained by making a successful skill check using 0 skill ranks. 
O t h e r s ,  s u c h  a s  S p e l l c r a f t ,  c a n  b e  u s e d  o n l y  b y  c h a r a c t e r s  w h o  a r e  
trained in that skill. 
transitive plane: A plane of existence often used to travel from 
one place (or plane) to another. The Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane, 
and the Plane of Shadow are all transitive planes. 
turn: The point in the round at which you take your action(s). On 
your turn, you may perform one or more actions, as dictated by your 
current circumstances. 
turn undead:  The supernatural ability to drive off or destroy 
undead by channeling positive energy. 
turned: Affected by a turn undead attempt. Turned undead flee 
for 10 rounds (1 minute) by the best and fastest means available to 
them. If they cannot flee, they cower. 
turning check: A roll of 1d20 + Charisma modifier to determine 
how much positive or negative energy is able to be channeled when 
attempting to turn or rebuke undead. 
turning damage:  The number of Hit Dice of undead that are 
turned or rebuked with a particular turning check. Turning damage 
= 2d6 + cleric level + Charisma modifier. 
two-handed weapon: A weapon designed for use in two hands, 
such as a greatsword. A two-handed weapon is considered to be an 
object of the same size as its designated wielder (for example, a 
Medium greatsword is a Medium object). 
type: See creature type. 
unarmed attack: A melee attack made with no weapon in hand. 
unarmed strike:  A successful blow, typically dealing nonlethal 
damage, from a character attacking without weapons. A monk can 
deal lethal damage with an unarmed strike, but others deal 
nonlethal damage. 
unconscious: Knocked out and helpless. Unconsciousness can 
result from having current hit points between –1 and –9, or from 
nonlethal damage in excess of current hit points. A character who is 
unconscious as a result of having current hit points between –1 and 
–9 who becomes stable has a 10% chance every hour to become 
conscious. A character who is unconscious as a result of having 
nonlethal damage in excess of current hit points has a 10% chance 
every minute to wake up and be staggered. 
untrained: Having no ranks in a skill. Many skills can be used 
untrained by making a successful skill check using 0 skill ranks and 
including all other modifiers as normal. Other skills can be used 
only by characters who are trained in that skill. 
use-activated item:  A magic item that activates upon typical 
usage for a normal item of its type. For example, a character can 
activate a potion by drinking it, a magic sword by swinging it, a lens 
by looking through it, or a cloak by wearing it. Characters do not 
learn what a use-activated item does just by wearing or using it 
unless the benefit occurs automatically with use. 
Will save: A type of saving throw, related to a character’s ability 
to withstand damage thanks to his mental toughness. 
Wisdom (Wis): The ability that describes a character’s willpower, 
common sense, perception, and intuition. 
wizard (Wiz): A class made up of characters who are schooled in 
the arcane arts. 