D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode One: The Big Deal
Cliffhangers Adventures
A Giant Ransom
Episode One: The Big Deal
By Stephen Schubert
A Giant Ransom is a short adventure for four 11th-level characters. There are opportunities for diplomacy, 
stealth, and combat, based on the choices the PCs make, so any mix of classes is appropriate. The adventure 
can be set in any campaign world, in a frontier region near glacier-covered mountains. 
Adventure Background
The newly appointed Duke Castaril Ambrinigan has recently relocated to a modest, newly 
constructed keep near the frontier town of Ormanlak. He and his family arrived safely, but a 
caravan containing family heirlooms was waylaid by a band of frost giant raiders. Most of the 
items were of no consequence to the Duke, with the exception of one: a three-foot tall golden 
statue of a lion. 
The Duke, wanting to avoid a war, sent an emissary to the frost giants. He offered gems totaling 
10,000 gold pieces in value as ransom for the lion. The giants accepted, and a time and place 
was set for the exchange.
But there is more. A white dragon named Whildenstrank lives in the midst of a nearby glacier, 
and has maintained a network of winter wolf spies, including some in the frost giants' camp. 
Through these spies, Whildenstrank learned of the capture of the golden lion, and the upcoming 
trade. Thinking that the lion would make a fine addition to his frozen treasure hoard, 
Whildenstrank has prepared to strike.
Hooking the Characters
Duke Ambrinigan wants the exchange to occur, but is concerned that the giants might double-
cross him. Even a platoon of troops would be short work for a few frost giants. So he has 
decided to enlist the aid of more powerful allies -- the PCs. The PCs could become involved in a 
number of ways.
●     The Duke may have provided for the PCs in the past, and is now calling in a favor. 
●     Upon hearing of the reputation of the party, the Duke approaches them with a business proposition. He 
will pay 1000 gp per person for the return of the golden lion. 
●     One or more organizations with which the PCs are affiliated is sympathetic to the Duke's problem, and 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010709a,0 (1 of 3) [9/10/2001 5:29:22 PM]