D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode One: The Big Deal
encourages the PC to help out.
●     The PCs may be looking to improve their reputation in the eyes of the local nobility. Helping the Duke 
with his problem could go a long way in political circles. 
Roleplay the negotiations. Allow PCs to use Diplomacy (or related skills such as Intimidate) skill checks 
to improve their reward, whether material or intangible. In any case, the agreement requires the return 
of the golden lion at all costs. The Duke will provide the ransom payment of 10,000gp in a single bag of 
mixed gems, and will present it to the PC that appears the most honest.
The Dragon Attacks!
The exchange was arranged to take place four days hence at noon. The meeting place is a 
clearing on a hillside, a three-day journey from the town of Ormanlak, and about a day away 
from the glacier. At the discretion of the DM, the journey to the designated hillside can be either 
uneventful, or be filled with random encounters appropriate to a temperate or cold mountainous 
region. 
On the day of the exchange, the PCs are standing in or near the clearing when they witness 
Whildenstrank's attack on the band of four giants that constitute the frost giant envoy. Read or 
paraphrase the following text.
The peaceful sounds of nature are interrupted by the sound of a horn, blaring in the distance to the 
west. Looking in the direction of the sound, you witness a winged shape drop from the clouds into 
the midst of the forest, perhaps a half mile away. A few treetops sway and topple near where it 
landed.
As you strain your eyes to get another glimpse of the creature, you see it again, as it leaps into the 
sky and flies off to the west. There is no mistaking the reptilian form and large wingspan: It is 
definitely a dragon, as white as the ice on the distant mountains.
As it flies off, a horn again sounds from the same general direction, and seems to echo off the 
mountains in the distance.
Whildenstrank dropped from the clouds in a dive attack at the leader of the giant band. In a few 
short rounds the dragon was able to take down two giants and escape with the golden lion. A 
PC that succeeds at a Spot check (DC 25) might notice that the dragon is carrying a bag of 
some sort in its claws. 
The horns are the means of distance communication for the giants. The echoing of the horns 
was actually additional frost giants, relaying the message of the attack.
Even if the PCs are able to attack the dragon at this distance, he mostly ignores them, since he 
wants to return to his lair with his new treasure.
The Cliffhanger
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010709a,0 (2 of 3) [9/10/2001 5:29:22 PM]