D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Two: Giant Trouble
Cliffhangers Adventures
A Giant Ransom
Episode Two: Giant Trouble
By Stephen Schubert
A Giant Ransom is a short adventure for four 11th-level characters. There are opportunities for diplomacy, 
stealth, and combat, based on the choices the PCs make, so any mix of classes is appropriate. The adventure 
can be set in any campaign world, in a frontier region near glacier-covered mountains.
Adventure Background
In the first episode, the PCs were employed by Duke Ambrinigan to exchange a ransom of 
10,000 gp in gems for a golden lion that was taken by frost giants in a recent raid. While waiting 
for the giants to arrive at the designated meeting place, the PCs watched as the white dragon 
Whildenstrank attacked the giants and then flew off with the statue. Charged with returning the 
golden lion statue at all costs, the PCs move to investigate the site of the battle.
Angry Giants (EL 10)
The PCs may elect to go search the site of the dragon attack. There they find two dead giants, 
and two others that survived the attack, but are obviously nervous.
As the characters approach the clearing, read or paraphrase the following text:
The target of the dragon's attack becomes evident as you approach the clearing. Two wounded 
frost giants remain standing in the clearing, and the bodies of two others lay on the ground. The 
two live ones scan the sky frantically, perhaps waiting for the dragon to return.
The giants are concentrating skyward, so it would be relatively easy to sneak up on them from 
below. If the PCs remain hidden, the frost giants will complain loudly about the dragon attack, 
and suggest to each other that the dragon must be working with the Duke, and they blame the 
humans for setting up the ambush. After a few more minutes, they will gather up the bodies of 
their companions, and head back to their tribe. If the PCs are detected, give them enough time 
to attempt to explain themselves, but any overt offensive action will result in the giants attacking.
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010716a,0 (1 of 4) [9/10/2001 5:28:37 PM]