D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Two: Giant Trouble
The giants will initially believe that the PCs are in league with the dragon, and have plotted to 
finish what the dragon started. Therefore the giant's initial attitude toward the PCs is hostile, and 
they will first threaten the party before attacking. These giants speak both giant and common. 
The PCs can attempt Diplomacy, or Charisma checks:
Unfriendly (DC 20): Information: the giants will indicate that the dragon took the statue. If the 
giants learn that the PCs have the gems for the exchange, they may attack the bearer of the 
gems, and then flee when they have the loot (perhaps even taking the gem-bearer!).
Indifferent (DC 25): Information: the giants will relate general information about the area. They 
know the dragon lives in the midst of the glacier, past the "ice canyons."
Friendly (DC 35) or Helpful (DC 50): Information: the giants avoid the glacier because of the "hot 
worms" that live there. The last horn blast should have alerted Velg the Dragon Tamer, and Velg 
will likely be on his way soon to the glacier.
If the PCs loot the corpses of the fallen giants, the remaining giants will become hostile.
Treasure: a sack on the 110-hp frost giant contains 1071 gp, and a +1 longspear is on the 
corpse of the leader. 
Wounded Frost Giants (2): hp 80, 110; see 
Monster Manual page 98.
Velg the Dragon Tamer (EL 13)
The party must now head west, in the direction the dragon flew, toward its lair. Assuming normal 
means of transportation, the trek to the glacier takes about a day. During this time, the frost 
giant ranger Velg, also known as Velg the Dragon Tamer, heard the warnings of the horns, and 
has likewise journeyed to the glacier to do battle with this draconic foe. His trusty servant Zim is 
with him.
When the PCs arrive at the glacier, they see Velg and Zim sitting on the ice, about 200 feet from 
the tree line, finishing off a meal of venison. Velg wears eyes of the eagle, and has +16 to Spot 
checks, so unless the PCs were particularly sneaky, Velg has spotted them as they approach 
the edge of the glacier.
Initial reaction: Indifferent: Velg will start the encounter by lobbing large snowballs at the nearest 
PCs. He lobs one per round as Zim busily packs more snowballs. Treat the snowball as a rock 
attack, +12 ranged, 1d6+9 subdual damage, with a 100-ft range increment. If the PCs respond 
with regular attacks, Velg's attitude will become unfriendly and he will throw until he or Zim has 
taken 20 points of damage, at which point Velg he will call for a cease-fire. If the PCs persist in 
their attacks, the giants will become hostile and move to engage in melee.
Friendly (DC 15, 25 if the PCs attacked): Velg will share his meal, and talk about his upcoming 
conquest over the white dragon Whildenstrank. He will also warn of the dangers of the "ice 
canyons": the "hot worms" that melt weapons, so use ranged attacks on them, and the "cold 
worms" that stun opponents with a screeching trill. He might join the group if asked, but will 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010716a,0 (2 of 4) [9/10/2001 5:28:37 PM]