D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Three: Thin Ice
Cliffhangers Adventures
A Giant Ransom
Episode Three: Thin Ice
By Stephen Schubert
A Giant Ransom is a short adventure for four 11th-level characters. There are opportunities for diplomacy, 
stealth, and combat, based on the choices the PCs make, so any mix of classes is appropriate. The adventure 
can be set in any campaign world, in a frontier region near glacier-covered mountains. 
Adventure Background
In the first episode, the PCs were employed by Duke Ambrinigan to exchange a ransom of 
10,000 gp in gems for a golden lion that was taken by frost giants in a recent raid. While waiting 
for the giants to arrive at the designated meeting place, the PCs watched as the white dragon 
Whildenstrank attacked the giants and then flew off with the statue. Charged with returning the 
golden lion statue at all costs, the PCs dealt with the remaining frost giants and then headed 
west, toward the lair of the dragon in the midst of the nearby glacier.
Along the way, they encountered Velg the Dragon Tamer, another frost giant who was also on 
the trail of the dragon. Velg may or may not be with the party now.
The PCs are now traveling across the flat icy surface of the glacier, and may have just noticed 
something burrowing under the ice, heading straight toward them.
Atop the Glacier
The eastern edge of the glacier is mostly flat ice, with the occasional crevasse or sinkhole. 
Travel is relatively safe, and the surface is perhaps 4 inches of heavy snow or slush, soft 
enough that feet sink in an inch or two, but not so wet that water puddles in footprints. The flats 
of the glacier eventually give way to the "ice canyons", a maze of ice walls and pillars. The white 
dragon Whildenstrank makes his home in a spire of volcanic rock that juts out above the glacier 
like a black fang in the middle of the icy expanse.
Tunneling Trouble (EL 9)
The PCs have not been unnoticed as they cross the snowy landscape. A pair of bulettes has 
adapted to living under the glacier, and they have noticed the presumably armor-clad meals 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010723a,0 (1 of 3) [9/10/2001 5:29:48 PM]