D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Three: Thin Ice
marching above. Not bulettes of the sort to allow a meal to walk by, they burrow up to the PCs 
and attack.
Bulettes (2): hp 90, 100; see Monster Manual page 28
Walking on Thin Ice (EL 8) 
Once the bulettes are defeated, the PCs will discover another danger: the tunneling of the 
bulettes has weakened the ice beneath their feet, and it is about to give way! Read or 
paraphrase the following text:
You sigh with relief as the last of the landsharks slumps motionless to the ice. Before you can 
begin your next thought, however, the ice beneath your feet shifts, nearly throwing you to the 
ground. You see cracks and crevices begin to appear on the surface of the ice, and the small rifts 
begin to spread, becoming larger, as if the glacier were opening a gaping maw to swallow you up!
The PCs have very little time before the ice gives way. Have each PC roll for initiative, and begin 
a round. At initiative 10, the ice gives way. Any PC still within 30 feet of the bulettes will fall into 
the sinkhole with the ice. A PC that falls into the sinkhole must make a Reflex saving throw (DC 
15). Success means the PC has managed to stay atop the ice as she falls, failure indicates that 
the PC will be buried.
Treat this situation as a cave-in (see Dungeon Masters Guide page 114). A PC that succeeded 
his first saving throw will need to make another Reflex save (DC 15), or sustain 3d6 points of 
damage and become pinned in the ice. Any PC that failed his first saving throw will be buried, 
and will take 8d6 points of damage, or half that if another Reflex saving throw (DC 15) is 
successful, and is pinned beneath the ice.
Pinned characters take 1d6 points of subdual damage per minute while pinned. Buried 
characters are under 1d6 feet of ice, and digging them out will require moving 500 pounds per 
foot of depth, or about one minute per foot of depth for the average PC working alone. Velg, with 
his 29 Strength, can dig down about 14 feet in one minute, if he is there. See the Dungeon 
Masters Guide, page 114, for rules on cave-ins and digging. Characters who are not buried, but 
still pinned, can free themselves with a Strength check (DC 25), or can break free in one minute 
with some assistance.
The Ice Canyons
After the characters dig themselves out of the sinkhole, they should continue west, toward the 
dragon's den. The relatively smooth surface of the glacier slowly gives way to a network of 
interweaving Ice Canyons. The walls of the canyons rise nearly one hundred feet above the 
canyon floors, which vary from twenty to thirty feet wide.
The canyon floors are covered with a layer of ice dust, and there are some tracks in the snow. A 
Wilderness Lore check (DC 18) by a PC with the Track feat will reveal a set of large wolf-tracks 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010723a,0 (2 of 3) [9/10/2001 5:29:48 PM]