D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Four: The Worms Go In
Cliffhangers Adventures
A Giant Ransom
Episode Four: The Worms Go In
By Stephen Schubert
A Giant Ransom is a short adventure for four 11th-level characters. There are opportunities for diplomacy, 
stealth, and combat, based on the choices the PCs make, so any mix of classes is appropriate. The adventure 
can be set in any campaign world, in a frontier region near glacier-covered mountains. 
Adventure Background
In the story thus far, the PCs have been tasked by Duke Ambrinigan, a local lord, to recover a 
stolen statue of a golden lion. The lion was stolen in transit by frost giant raiders, and was to be 
ransomed back to the Duke for 10,000 gp. The PCs were sent to perform the exchange. The 
giants, however, were attacked by the white dragon Whildenstrank, who stole the statue and 
retreated to his lair in the middle of a nearby glacier. 
The PCs encountered the remaining giants, and then set off westward toward the dragon's lair. 
They traveled across the flat part of the glacier, encountering the frost giant ranger Velg the 
Dragon Tamer, as well as some burrowing bulettes. The PCs now have entered the Ice 
Canyons: a maze of twisting passageways surrounding the black spire of rock that the dragon 
calls home. They have just heard sounds of a battle ahead.
Recent Battle
Around the next corner, the PCs find the remains of a battle between a remorhaz and a frost 
worm. Both creatures are dead. Read or paraphrase the following text:
Shards of ice are scattered across the ground at an intersection of two canyons. In the middle lays 
a enormous blue-white segmented worm, with dozens of legs and winglike fins near its head. The 
back of the worm glows faintly red, and steam is rising slowly from its body. It does not appear to 
be moving. The entire area is covered with shards of ice.
The high-pitched scream the PCs heard was the keening of the frost worm. It attacked the 
remorhaz, but was destroyed by the heat generated by the remorhaz. When the frost worm died, 
it turned to ice and exploded, killing the remorhaz. The shards of ice on the ground are all that 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010730a,0 (1 of 3) [9/10/2001 5:30:18 PM]