D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Four: The Worms Go In
remain of the frost worm.
PCs examining the body of the remorhaz may find what appear to be wounds caused by huge 
mandibles, and other wounds like hundreds of dagger thrusts, but no weapons can be found 
(Search DC 15). If they search around the area the PCs may deduce that the ice shards are in a 
pattern that suggests the explosion (Search DC 20).
The Ice Canyons
The PCs could very quickly lose their way in the maze of canyons. The quickest path through 
the Ice Canyons would take about 6 hours of travel. The dragon's den is almost directly west. A 
successful Intuit Direction check (DC 15) will ensure arrival in 6-8 hours. Alternatively, a 
character could climb, fly, or levitate to the top of the canyons to spot the black spire and direct 
the party. Without some means of finding the direction, there is only a 1 in 4 chance that any 
hour's worth of travel gets them closer to the spire.
Whildenstrank's winter wolves patrol the Ice Canyons. Each hour the PCs move through the 
Canyons, there is a 1 in 6 chance that a winter wolf will find them. They will avoid combat, and 
will try to remain hidden (Hide +13) and spy on the PCs and report back to their master. A PC 
with the Track feat could track the winter wolves back to the spire with a successful Wilderness 
Lore check (DC 15).
Ambush! (EL 7)
The Ice Canyons are home to many remorhaz and frost worms. Along their trek through the 
frosty landscape, the PCs will be ambushed by a remorhaz. If the PCs travel for longer than 6 
hours, there is a 1 in 12 chance per hour, cumulative, that another remorhaz will lie in wait.
The remorhaz will burrow out and attack the character in the back of the party. Since the 
remorhaz eats all the prey it finds, and incinerates all it ingests, it has no treasure. If Velg is with 
the party, he will suggest using ranged attacks.
Remorhaz: hp 67; see 
Monster Manual page 155.
Canyon Worm (EL 12)
The dragon, Whildenstrank, likes his lair for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the 
number of dangerous creatures that make their home in the Ice Canyons, deterring any 
inquisitive explorers. The frost worms, in particular, are a favorite of the dragon, because even 
those that are strong enough to defeat them might still fall victim to the worm's death throes.
After traveling four hours toward the black spire, the PCs are attacked by a frost worm. The 
attack happens at an intersection between many canyons, and there are many columns of ice in 
the middle of the intersection. As a result, the frost worm has one-half cover from any character 
more than 30 feet away and total cover beyond 60 feet. The reverse is also true. The frost worm 
will begin by trilling, then will move in to attack a stunned character. 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010730a,0 (2 of 3) [9/10/2001 5:30:18 PM]