D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Five: The Wyrms Go Out
Cliffhangers Adventures
A Giant Ransom
Episode Five: The Wyrms Go Out
By Stephen Schubert
A Giant Ransom is a short adventure for four 11th-level characters. There are opportunities for diplomacy, 
stealth, and combat, based on the choices the PCs make, so any mix of classes is appropriate. The adventure 
can be set in any campaign world, in a frontier region near glacier-covered mountains. 
Adventure Background
In the story thus far, the PCs have been tasked by Duke Ambrinigan, a local lord, to recover a 
stolen statue of a golden lion. The lion was stolen in transit by frost giant raiders, and was to be 
ransomed back to the Duke for 10,000 gp. The PCs were sent to perform the exchange. The 
giants, however, were attacked by the white dragon Whildenstrank, who stole the statue and 
retreated to his lair in the middle of a nearby glacier. 
The PCs encountered the remaining giants, and then set off westward toward the dragon's lair. 
They traveled across the flat part of the glacier, encountering the frost giant ranger Velg the 
Dragon Tamer, as well as some burrowing bulettes. Then they braved the hazards of frost 
worms and remorhaz in the Ice Canyons: a maze of twisting passageways surrounding the 
black spire of rock that the dragon calls home. The PCs now stand at the edge of an open 
space, looking at the towering edifice in front of them.
The Approach (EL 8)
While in its lair, the dragon Whildenstrank relies on his winter wolf spies to inform him of 
trespassers. The entry to the lair is a simple affair, with a gaping hole in the side of the black 
stone spire that leads down a tunnel to an inner grotto. Whildenstrank has covered the drab 
black walls of the tunnel and the entry with ice, and icicles hang from the lip of the cave mouth. 
A narrow footpath used by the winter wolves, climbs up the steep slope to the entry.
Three winter wolves rest in the entry. If they see the PCs (Spot +9), they will trot down the 
footpath and challenge the party, demanding to know why they have come to the spire. The 
initial attitude is unfriendly, and they will attack if the party does not leave. If the PCs try to talk 
their way past the wolves, have the speaker make a Diplomacy check:
Indifferent (DC 15): The wolves will allow them to pass, but will follow them into the tunnel. If 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010806a,0 (1 of 4) [9/10/2001 5:30:42 PM]