D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Five: The Wyrms Go Out
combat breaks out with the dragon, the wolves will join in and attack from behind.
Friendly (DC 25): Information: the wolves don't like working for the dragon, and could be 
convinced to ignore the party, for a sufficient bribe of 1,000 gp.
Helpful (DC 40): The wolves will let the PCs pass, for an unspecified favor in the future.
If Velg is with the party, he will wait for the wolves to come down, and will then attack, explaining 
later that they might warn the dragon.
If two of the wolves are killed, the third will try to run back to the cave, to warn Whildenstrank.
Winter wolves (3): hp 42, 46, 64; see Monster Manual page 184.
Lair of the Dragon (EL 12)
From the entry, a wide tunnel leads inward and slightly downward to Whildenstrank's lair in a 
large hollow in the middle of the black spire. The cavern is roughly 60 feet across, and is ringed 
by a dozen 5-foot wide columns made of ice. As light shines on the columns, it reflects off the 
gems, jewels, and thousands of coins embedded in the ice. One column is half-formed, and the 
head of a golden lion protrudes from the top of the ice mound. Whildenstrank is most likely 
working on encasing his newfound treasure by using slow, controlled breaths of ice. 
When the PCs arrive, Whildenstrank is disturbed by the interruption, but is curious as to why the 
PCs journeyed all the way to his lair. His patience will last long enough for the PCs to briefly 
explain their presence. He is initially unfriendly, unless Velg is present, and his actions are 
further influenced by the results of a PC's Diplomacy check:
Hostile (less than 5): He attacks. See tactics, below. He will also attack if Velg is present.
Unfriendly (DC 5): He demands that they pay tribute (1,000 gp each should do) and leave. If 
they do not pay and leave, he attacks. See tactics, below.
Indifferent (DC 15): He will be open to discussing a trade for the golden lion statue. The initial 
price will be 20,000 gp in gems and/or items. A PC may attempt to negotiate a better deal, with 
opposed Diplomacy checks (Whildenstrank has +9 on Diplomacy), but the dragon will not go 
lower than 15,000 gp.
Friendly or Helpful (DC 25): The dragon will trade, and the initial price will be 12,000 gp, and he 
will negotiate down to 8,000 gp.
Alternatively, the PCs could attempt to sneak in and steal the statue. That approach is best 
when the dragon is either gone hunting or sleeping. If the party waits for it to sleep, they can 
sneak in, but any loud noise will rouse the dragon (Move Silently DC 20). The golden lion statue 
is stuck halfway in the ice pillar, and will require a Strength check (DC 20) to pull out, and will 
most assuredly wake the dragon. The party may come up with more clever methods of retrieving 
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010806a,0 (2 of 4) [9/10/2001 5:30:42 PM]