D&D - Cliffhangers - A Giant Ransom - Episode Five: The Wyrms Go Out
end up with coins, art objects, and gems worth a total of 11,700 gp, a suit of +1 blue scale mail, 
a ring of sonic resistance, a +1 quarterstaff of shock, and a +3 icy burst warhammer. 
Continuing the Adventure
Once the statue is secured, the PCs can return it to Duke Ambrinigan. They may have 
encounters with the wildlife of the glacier on their journey back, or may meet another band of 
frost giants, who may or may not be hostile. Upon their return, the Duke will reimburse the 
characters for any reasonable expenses they may have incurred. The heroes could then choose 
a number of avenues:
●     Depending on the results of the encounters with the frost giants, the frost giant tribe may have a 
different attitude toward the human settlement. If all the giants were killed, they may decide to attack 
more caravans to exact revenge.
●     If Whildenstrank was not killed, then he may prove a threat to the region, or could perhaps be 
considered as an ally against the frost giants.
●     The winter wolves working for Whildenstrank may be just the outer ring of a more elaborate wilderness 
information network.
●     The mystery of the golden lion statue remains. Why was Duke Ambrinigan willing to pay so much for its 
return? Is it worth more than it seems?
●     Velg the Dragon Tamer, if still alive and on good terms, may contact the PCs to help him in further 
dragon "taming" exploits.
About the Author
Stephen Schubert is a freelance writer who spends too much of his time at his day job. When 
not working or writing, Stephen runs two D&D campaigns, and plays in a few others. He 
dedicates this, his first published adventure, to his wife, whose paladin will always remember 
"242 points of damage!" 
Go to the D&D main news page for more articles and news about the new D&D or check out the D&D message 
boards for a lively discussion of all aspects of the D&D game.
 
© 2001 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All rights reserved.
http://om.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=dnd/ch/ch20010806a,0 (4 of 4) [9/10/2001 5:30:42 PM]