   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 3 
 
A mad necromancer imprisoned in a 
sanitarium has died. Now he has come back 
as a powerful undead wizard. His lunacy 
was only increased by his death and he has 
turned all the other inmates into his undead 
servants. Now the sanitarium is under his 
control. A traveling group of adventures 
must put a stop to the necromancer before 
his evil madness spreads. 
 
A Dead Man’s Party is a short adventure for 
use with the d20 system by Wizards of the 
Coast
®. It requires the use of the Dungeons 
& Dragons® Player’s Handbook, Third 
Edition, published by Wizards of the 
Coast
®. Dungeons & Dragons® and Wizards 
of the Coast® are Registered Trademarks of 
Wizards of the Coast, and are used with 
Permission under the d20 system license 
(see the LICENSES APPENDIX). 
 
This adventure is optimized for 4 player 
characters, all between character levels 4 
and 6, but can be adapted for play with 
almost any number of characters of any 
level. It is highly advisable that the party 
contains a cleric or another character that is 
capable of healing and turning undead. 
 
Preparation
 
If you are a player, STOP READING NOW! 
The following info in this module is for the 
Dungeon Master(DM)’s eyes only! You, as 
the DM, should have a copy of each of the 
d20 system core rules. 
 
This adventure is designed to be used as a 
side-quest or interlude adventure when the 
PCs (Player Characters) are traveling. 
  
You should read through this adventure 
thoroughly, at least once, before you begin 
running it for your players. Shaded boxes 
are designed to be read directly to your 
players, but all other information is just for 
the DM. 
 
The adventure starts out in the Dapplewood 
Forest, on the borders of the countries of 
Furyondy and Veluna, but can easily be 
inserted into any ongoing campaign by 
placing it in an equivalent woodland setting 
in your game.  
 
Adventure Background
 
Nigel Blackheart was once a powerful 
wizard, specializing in the necromantic arts. 
During the Greyhawk Wars, Nigel was an 
ally of Iuz the Old, the evil demigod. He 
supplied an army of undead soldiers for the 
Evil One. However, during the war he was 
captured by the Knights of the Furyondy. 
 
The Knights tried Nigel for his crimes. They 
judged him to be insane, as Nigel was only 
partially aware of this reality. His years of 
work with the powers of necromancy had 
shifted his senses to perceive more of the 
world of the dead than the world of the 
living. The Knights placed Nigel in a secure 
prison for the criminally insane. 
 
Nigel’s madness grew while he was 
imprisoned in the sanitarium. He listened to 
the spirits of the dead as they whispered the 
secrets of the ages to him. Eight years after 
he was captured, Nigel Blackheart died. His 
keepers in the sanitarium breathed sighs of 
relief as they buried his body in the 
sanitarium’s catacombs. 
 
But Nigel’s connection with the world of the 
dead gave him the power to come back from 
death. He arose as a powerful wraith, 
retaining some of his wizardly powers as 
well! The wraith of Blackheart slew his 
former keepers and began to turn the 
sanitarium’s inmates into his insane undead 
followers. 
 
With the sanitarium under his control, Nigel 
put to use the secrets he had learned from 