   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 4 
 
the spirits when he was alive. Using allies he 
had contacted there, Blackheart managed to 
open up a rift to the Negative Elemental 
Plane in the sanitarium. The rift is not a 
proper gate, so no creatures could pass 
through, but it did cause powerful waves of 
negative energy to radiate out into the 
sanitarium and the nearby area. 
 
The radiating negative energy is causing 
undead creatures from miles around to flock 
toward the sanitarium. Dead bodies in the 
graveyards of nearby villages are rising up 
to march toward the sanitarium. Nigel is 
using the power of the rift to summon an 
army that he will use to go out into the 
world. His insane plans include destroying 
all living creatures in this world and turning 
it into a planet of undead! 
 
Nigel now waits in the sanitarium with his 
undead followers, as more and more 
unnatural creatures arrive to join his army. 
He envisions himself as a conquering king 
and will soon march out to destroy all living 
creatures he can find. In his madness, Nigel 
Blackheart has commanded his followers to 
celebrate the eve of their world conquest. 
The sanitarium is currently full of undead 
creatures in a horrible mockery of a living 
party. 
 
Adventure Summary
 
The sanitarium where Nigel reigns is located 
on a hilltop in the middle of the Dapplewood 
Forest. 
 
The PCs will be drawn into investigating the 
sanitarium. They will discover a hive of 
undead… Nigel Blackheart’s army and 
servants. All the undead are commanded to 
“celebrate” by their evil lord, so the PCs will 
witness many strange, bizarre, and horrible 
activities. Your group of players will either 
be horrified or amused, depending on how 
they take to the macabre. 
 
After searching through the sanitarium and 
discovering many terrors, the PCs will learn 
the truth regarding Nigel and the negative 
energy rift. They must do their best to put a 
stop to the wraith’s evil plans before it is too 
late! 
 
Adventure Hooks
 
Every campaign and every set of player 
characters are different. But here are some 
ideas on how to get your PCs involved in 
this adventure. 
 
• Simply have the group traveling through 
a forest wilderness. Then spring either 
UNDEAD VILLAGERS or THE 
FOREST RANGER encounter on them 
(see below). 
• A local nobleman is concerned because 
no one has heard from the sanitarium in 
weeks. He asks the PCs to investigate. 
• The PCs are resting in a small town 
between adventures when many villagers 
approach them. The villagers have seen 
their dead rising from the town cemetery 
and marching toward the sanitarium. 
They offer the PCs all the cash they can 
scrape together… 300 gp, if they will 
find out why this is happening and stop 
it. 
• A holy character (a paladin or priest of a 
good deity) has a vision of a great evil at 
the sanitarium. The deity encourages the 
PC to investigate and destroy any evil 
he/she finds. 
 
 
UNDEAD VILLAGERS (EL 5) 
 
While the PCs are just passing through the 
Dapplewood Forest, or on their way to 
investigate the sanitarium, then read the 
following: 
 
The forest you have been traveling 