   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 5 
 
through grows thick and dark. The very 
trees here look twisted and in pain, as if 
some evil force has warped their nature. 
Sunlight is barely visible through the 
thick tree coverage. Even though there is 
several hours of daylight still left, you 
realize that this forest will be like a land 
of nightmares in the dark. 
 
Then have the PCs make Listen (DC 10) and 
Spot (DC 12) checks. Any character that 
makes either can notice what is ahead: 
 
Suddenly, up ahead through the forest, 
you detect motion. Creeping closer, you 
see many shambling figures marching 
through the forest. Although they look 
human-shaped, they move with an 
unnatural awkwardness. They don’t 
seem to notice you as they travel on their 
way. 
 
The characters have just noticed a troop of 
zombies traveling toward the sanitarium. 
These are all former villagers of a nearby 
small town, and are dressed as such. Most of 
them have been buried for some time, so 
their skin and clothing is mostly rotted 
away. The power of the negative energy rift 
is drawing them toward the sanitarium to 
join Nigel Blackheart’s army. They carry 
nothing of interest on them. 
 
If the group spotted or heard the zombies, 
they may attack with surprise if they wish. If 
they choose to follow the zombies, the 
creatures will lead the group right to the 
sanitarium, milling around outside the 
entrance until someone lets them in (see 
Area 1 in the sanitarium). If the PCs wish to 
let the zombies go, they can later be tracked 
easily with a Track check (DC 10). 
 
If none of the PCs make either of their 
checks, then they will stumble onto the 
zombies and the creatures will see them. The 
zombies will attack the characters, so the 
PCs must fight or flee. The zombies will not 
pursue fleeing characters long, as the pull of 
the rift will draw them back toward the 
sanitarium. 
 
 Zombies (10) 
CR 1/2 each; Medium Undead; HD 2d12+3 (20, 19, 
17, 16, 16, 16, 16, 15, 14, 12 hp); Init –1 (Dex); Spd 
30ft.; AC 11 (-1 Dex, +2 natural); Atks Slam +2 
melee (1d6+1 dmg); Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./5ft.; SQ 
Undead, partial actions only; AL N; SV Fort +0, Ref 
–1, Will +3; Str 13 Dex 8 Con – Int – Wis 10 Cha 1. 
Feats: Toughness 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Partial Actions Only(Ex): Zombies have poor 
reflexes and can perform only partial actions. Thus 
they can move or attack, but can only do both if they 
charge (a partial charge). 
Tactics: The zombies will display no real 
tactics, being mindless. They will simply 
attack the nearest living things they see. 
 
 
THE FOREST RANGER 
 
Run this as the second encounter in these 
woods, or the first, if you wish to skip the 
UNDEAD VILLAGERS. If the PCs are 
tracking zombies to the sanitarium, make 
sure this happens before they reach there: 
 
Suddenly, off to your left you hear the 
twang of a bowstring. This is followed 
by more shots and then the sound of 
running feet. You think this is all taking 
place in a clearing some 100 feet to the 
left of the path of your travel. 
 
If the PCs go to investigate, read the 
following: 
 
You enter the clearing and see a tall 
human male dressed in dark green 
clothing standing over the bodies of 