   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 6 
 
several zombies. The bodies are full of 
arrows, obviously from the bow that the 
man carries. He turns and notices you as 
you approach. His bearded face 
expresses concern until he studies your 
features and then he visibly relaxes. 
 
“Greetings and welcome to my forest,” 
he says. “My name is Zander. I’m afraid 
you’ve come at a bad time… the forest is 
being invaded by these walking 
monstrosities!” 
 
Zander is the local ranger for the 
Dapplewood Forest. He has noticed the 
undead traveling through the forest to get to 
the sanitarium. Zander has no idea what is 
actually going on in the sanitarium. He will 
be willing to help the PCs, but he will not go 
into the sanitarium himself because it is not 
part of his forest and it is an evil place. If the 
characters tell him they are going there, 
Zander will try to convince them not to go. 
If they insist, he suggests a plan to approach 
undetected. He has a disguise kit and will 
use his Disguise skill (or let another person 
use his kit, if they are obviously more 
skilled than him) to make the group look 
like zombies. 
 
Zander will escort the group wherever they 
want to go in the forest, if they ask. He will 
not, under any circumstances, approach the 
sanitarium, but he will guide the PCs to it if 
they insist. 
 
If the group wishes to be disguised, Nigel 
will use his disguise skill on each of them 
(Disguise +8, counting the +2 for the 
disguise kit). A character trying to be 
disguised as a zombie cannot be wearing 
any armor except light armor. Large 
weapons and other large items or packs will 
also need to be discarded or disguised to 
make the disguise look realistic (look at the 
character’s inventory and use your 
discretion as a DM to decide what a 
character could effectively hide or make part 
of a zombie disguise. Allow the players to 
be creative and reward good ideas… such as 
hiding a dagger in a boot, making a helm 
hidden under a makeshift wig, etc.). Nigel 
will use clothes from the bodies of the 
zombies he has found and killed in the 
woods. The clothes stink horribly, but will 
provide the PCs with the right odor to help 
impersonate these undead. 
 
The disguises may be very important to the 
success of the characters, especially if the 
group is weaker than most. Feel free to re-
roll any really bad Disguise rolls, as the 
others will probably notice that it doesn’t 
look that convincing. Have Zander try his 
check again on that character. 
 
 Zander the Ranger: 
Human Male; Rgr6; 44 hp; Disguise +8. See the NPC 
APPENDIX for his complete stats. 
 
 
DAPPLEWOOD FOREST (EL 
various) 
 
Once they encounter Zander, it will take the 
PCs about 2 hours of travel on foot to reach 
the sanitarium (1 hour on horse). For every 
hour spent traveling or waiting in the forest, 
there is a 25% chance of an encounter. If 
there is an encounter, roll 1d6 on the 
following table. All these creatures are 
traveling to the sanitarium and will attack on 
sight, but will not pursue fleeing characters 
for long before the pull of the rift draws 
them back. 
 
If Zander agreed to escort the group, he will 
help during these encounters. 
 
Dapplewood Wandering Monsters: 
 
1 – 1d10 skeletons 