   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 7 
 
2 – 1d8 zombies 
3 – 1d4 ghouls 
4 – 1d2 ghasts 
5 – 1d3 shadows 
6 – 1d2 wights 
 
 
SANITARIUM 
 
The sanitarium is located atop a hill in the 
center of the forest. There is a winding path 
that leads up to the entrance (Area 1). The 
sanitarium itself is made of dark stone and 
looks very solid, grim, and forbidding. 
 
For dramatic effect, you may time the PCs’ 
arrival so that they approach the sanitarium 
during the evening or night. This is not 
required, but it may help to set the mood of 
the grim place. Maybe even throw in a 
thunderstorm if you want to really play it up. 
If approached at night, the characters can 
easily see that there are lights in the 
sanitarium, seen through barred windows. 
 
The map for the sanitarium is on page 2. It 
comes from the Wizards of the Coast Map-
a-Week archive from 3/29/2001. ( 
http://www.wizards.com/dnd/article.asp?x=
dnd/mw/archive ). On the map, up is north, 
right is east, etc. I have added numbers to 
the map to make it easier to notate areas, but 
the map is otherwise unchanged. 
 
The walls of the sanitarium are break DC 
35, Hardness 8, and 90 hp(for a 10 ft. x 10 
ft. section). The Climb DC is 20. All doors 
in the sanitarium are iron bound wooden 
doors with a break DC 25, hardness 5, and 
20 hp (unless otherwise noted in a particular 
area). No doors are locked unless noted. All 
windows in the sanitarium are barred with 
thick iron bars; the bars have a break DC 25, 
hardness 10, and 45 hp. The ceilings of 
rooms are 10 ft. up unless otherwise 
specified. 
 
Wall torches or braziers light the interior 
rooms and hallways of the sanitarium, 
unless otherwise noted. 
 
Disguises: 
If the PCs are disguised as zombies, they 
have a chance to fool the sanitarium 
inhabitants. Mindless undead (skeletons and 
zombies) are automatically fooled unless a 
nearby intelligent undead orders them to 
attack the PCs. Before they enter the 
sanitarium, secretly roll Zander’s Disguise 
check for each character. Use the character 
that got the lowest (worst result) as the 
opposed DC for any intelligent undead to 
Spot them.  
 
Do not give the PCs XP for monsters that 
they fool with their disguises, unless the area 
description specifically says otherwise. 
 
Fighting in the Sanitarium: 
The walls of the sanitarium are thick, and its 
inhabitants are known to make a great deal 
of noise. So assume that any fight does not 
attract the attention of other nearby undead 
in the sanitarium, unless you think that the 
PCs make so much noise there is no way 
they could avoid attention. But try to avoid a 
situation that will bring the entire sanitarium 
to attack the PCs at once, as they will not 
likely survive that encounter! 
 
Turning: 
If your PCs have a cleric or a paladin in their 
party, than more than likely they will try to 
turn some of the undead they may 
encounter. This may be the hardest part of 
DM-ing this module. You will have to 
decide, on the spot, where a turned undead 
will flee and what results from that (perhaps 
fleeing into another room and alerting the 
undead there?). Use basic logic. If the 
turning characters enter a room through the 
only door, a turned undead will not flee past 