   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 8 
 
them out the door, it will cower in the corner 
(unless the PCs move away from the door). 
But if there is a logical escape route, the 
undead will take it. Remember that 
incorporeal undead can flee though walls. 
The power of the rift will draw the undead 
back to where they started from once the 
turning effect wears off. 
 
 
1. A Greeting At the Entrance (EL 5)
 
 
The PCs must follow a winding road up the 
hillside to the front entrance of the 
sanitarium. When they get about 50 ft. from 
the door, read the following to them: 
 
The sanitarium rises before you on the 
hilltop. It is a two-story building made 
from dark granite stone, with barred 
windows on both floors. 
 
As you get closer, you notice the front 
double doors are atop a set of raised 
steps. The doors themselves are made of 
iron and look very thick and imposing. 
 
A strange crowd has gathered near the 
entrance. About a dozen skeletons and 
zombies are milling around the steps, as 
if anxious to be let in. Suddenly, the 
doors open, and a human man steps out. 
At least, you think he’s human until you 
see his burning red eyes and taught, 
mottled skin. 
 
“Welcome, loyal followers. Yes, 
welcome, he, he, he!” the creature 
gibbers at the crowd. “You’re all here 
for our Lord’s celebration, I take it?” 
 
Silence from the crowd of zombies and 
skeletons greets his question, but the 
being continues as if he heard a 
response. 
 
“I thought so. Come in and make 
yourselves welcome! He, he, he, he, he!” 
the strange creature cackles as he opens 
wide the double doors and steps aside 
with a flourish, motioning the crowd 
inside. 
 
The zombies and skeletons respond by 
shambling forward inside, past the 
ghoulish doorman.  
 
The doorman is indeed a ghoul. If he notices 
any creatures that are obviously not undead, 
he will order the zombies and skeletons to 
attack them, and then join the fray himself. 
 
If the group is disguised as zombies, they 
can join the crowd trying to enter the 
sanitarium. The doorman is a sharp observer 
(Spot +7), but he is not expecting any 
trouble and the group can mix in with the 
real zombies and skeletons, so you can add 
+4 to each PCs Disguise rating (for this 
encounter only!). Make the doorman’s Spot 
check opposed by the DC of the PCs’ worst 
Disguise rating. If the doorman succeeds, he 
spots the characters as living beings and 
orders the other undead to attack. If he fails, 
he merely thinks they are other zombies and 
lets them in with the crowd, closing the door 
behind himself after everyone is inside. 
 
The doorman will stay by the door listening 
for more “guests”. The zombies and 
skeletons will proceed to Area 6 and join the 
“festivities” there. If the party maintains 
their disguise, they can go anywhere they 
want without comment from the doorman, 
unless they do something that makes the 
doorman suspicious. The doorman is not 
stupid, so if he sees a zombie performing a 
very un-zombie-like action (like talking or 
casting a spell) he will attack. 
 
Neither the doorman nor the recent arrivals 
have any possessions except rotted clothing. 