   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 10 
 
The backside of the hill is very steep. 
Conceivably, the group of PCs may have 
climbed the backside of the hill and gained 
entrance to the sanitarium this way. The hill 
is nearly vertical here for 50 ft., and a Climb 
check (DC 15) is required to scale up the 
back way. 
 
Anyone can make a Listen check (DC 6) 
near the door to Area 6 to hear the “music” 
and “dancing” coming from inside. 
 
Development: The doorman ghoul from 
Area 1 usually waits in here, near the 
southern double doors. He will notice any 
creature coming in though either set of 
double doors. If the doorman let in the 
zombies and skeletons from Area 1 and the 
party did not attack them, then they will 
slowly shamble into Area 6, opening the 
door to the room to do so. 
 
3. Pipe Room
 
 
This is an empty room except for a series of 
iron pipes along the north wall that run from 
ceiling to floor. The pipes are used to funnel 
blood and waste from the rooms above to 
the drainage rooms in the basement. This 
fact is not immediately obvious unless the 
PCs attempt to burst open the pipes. There 
are three pipes, each are 6 inches in diameter 
and have a break DC 24, hardness 10, and 
20 hp. If broken open, blood will begin for 
flow out into this room from the breach. 
 
The grated drains from the floor above all 
flow into these pipes. The pipes are far too 
small for a character to pass through, unless 
they somehow become extremely small or 
gaseous. Any drain will lead either to Area 
19, 21, or 22 (determine randomly). 
 
There is also a barred window in this room 
overlooking the western slope of the hill. 
 
4. Small Bedroom (EL 3)
 
 
As you enter this room, a figure sitting 
on a bed raises its head, which was 
cupped in its hands. It is obviously not 
human… or at least, human no longer. 
Its flesh is leathery and its teeth are long 
and pointed. It looks at you with angry, 
insane eyes. 
 
This is a wight that was once one of the 
sanitarium’s healers. Now it hates all living 
things. If the party is disguised as zombies, 
make a Spot check for the wight opposed by 
the worst character’s disguise rating. If it 
does not see through the disguise, it will 
lower its head and ignore the PCs unless 
provoked. If it recognizes living creatures, it 
will attack them mercilessly until destroyed. 
 
 Wight 
CR 3; Medium Undead; HD 4d12 (32 hp); Init +1 
(Dex); Spd 30ft.; AC 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); Atks 
Slam melee +3 (1d4+1 dmg and energy drain); 
Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./5ft.; SA Energy Drain, Create 
Spawn; SQ Undead; AL LE; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, 
Will +5; Str 12 Dex 12 Con – Int 11 Wis 13 Cha 15. 
Skills: Climb +5, Hide +8, Listen +8, Move Silently 
+16, Search +7, Spot +8. 
Feats: Blind-Fight 
SA-Energy Drain(Su): Living creatures hit by a 
wight’s slam attack receive one negative level. The 
Fortitude save to remove the negative level is DC 14. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any humanoid slain by a wight 
becomes a wight in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under 
command of the wight that created them. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Tactics: The wight will attack the nearest 
PC and won’t stop until that character is 
dead. 
 
5. Large Bedroom
 
 
This is a simple room with two beds and a 
chest. The bed sheets are bloody, but have 
no other trace of the former occupants. The 