   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 11 
 
chest is a simple wooden chest and is not 
locked. 
 
 Treasure: The chest contains a small 
sack with some coins. There are 43 gp and 
78 sp in the sack. 
 
6. Ballroom 
 
 
If the characters enter this room through the 
door or look in from outside through one of 
the windows, read them the following: 
 
You can barely believe what you see! 
This room was probably once a 
cafeteria/kitchen. Now it has been turned 
into a bizarre ballroom. Hanging 
chandeliers light the room. There are 
“streamers” of intestines “decorating” 
the ceiling and walls… you pray that 
those are not human organs. A group of 
zombies in the corner are playing 
instruments… badly. Several other 
skeletons and zombies in the center of 
the room are moving in a macabre 
mockery of dancing. 
 
There are four zombie musicians that are 
attempting to play a lute, a flute, a lyre, and 
a tambourine. The effect is more like small 
children making noise than music. 
 
Two skeletons and two zombies dance with 
each other in the center of the room. Their 
motions are jerky and awkward, and are 
only vaguely in time to the “music”. They 
are attempting something that looks like a 
waltz. 
 
One table contains “snacks”. A platter has 
many organs and eyes on it. There is a bowl 
of “punch” that is obviously blood. 
 
All the undead in this room have been 
commanded to dance and play by Nigel 
Blackheart, so they will continue to do that, 
regardless of what happens around them 
(unless Nigel appears in this room for some 
reason and gives them other orders). The 
party may destroy the creatures at will and 
they will not fight back. PCs will get no XP 
for destroying such creatures, since they 
pose no challenge and will not fight back. 
 
 Treasure: These undead have nothing of 
value in the room, except for the instruments 
that the zombies are playing. If the PCs are 
careful in destroying the “musicians”, then 
they can claim the instruments, which are all 
masterwork quality and can be sold for 50gp 
each.  
 
Development: If the doorman from Area 1 
let in the zombies and the skeletons, and the 
PCs did not fight them, then the newcomers 
enter this room. Those creatures will join the 
dance. Once they do so, they will be like the 
other undead in this room and will not fight 
back under any circumstances. These new 
zombies and skeletons will each dance by 
themselves, rather than pairing up. If you 
really want to make this scene bizarre, you 
can have the newcomers start a conga line, 
or do the Macarena, or something equally 
weird! 
 
7. Library (EL 3)
 
 
The door to this room is locked (Open Lock 
DC 25). If the PCs wish to break it down, it 
is a standard iron bound wooden door for the 
sanitarium, with a break DC 25, hardness 5, 
and 20 hp. 
 
However, the door is trapped. Anyone 
opening the door or breaking it down will 
set off the trap. 
 
 
Glyph of Warding: CR 3; bestow curse spell on 
the nearest single being. Each round, the target has a 
50% chance to act normally, otherwise the target 
takes no action. Permanent until removed; Will Save 