   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 12 
 
DC 16 avoids; Search (DC 28), Disable Device (DC 
28). 
 
It is dark in the room unless there is sunlight 
or strong moonlight outside the barred 
window, or unless characters provide their 
own light source. Once the characters get 
through the doorway or look in through the 
outside window, read the following to them, 
if they can see: 
 
This is some sort of library or office. 
There is a desk in the center of the room, 
upon which lies some writing materials 
and an open book. A wooden shelf on 
the east wall contains many other books. 
 
This was once the office of the head healer 
of the sanitarium, a venerable cleric of Rao. 
The cleric was killed by Blackheart, but the 
book on the desk is his journal of many 
years. 
 
The book is written in Common. Any PCs 
spending some time to read the entries will 
learn the history of Nigel Blackheart; of how 
he was captured, of how he was imprisoned 
here, of how he was insane, and of his death. 
See the ADVENTURE BACKGROUND for 
this information. The cleric was killed 
before he could write of Nigel rising as a 
wraith, or of the dark rift, or of Nigel’s evil 
plans. The last entry reads: 
 
“It has been several days since Nigel 
Blackheart passed away. Some of the 
healers tell me they hear strange sounds 
coming from the catacombs. I fear that 
Nigel’s spirit may not be resting easy.” 
 
 Treasure: The bookshelf on the wall 
contains text on insanity and healing. These 
are of little value to anyone not involved 
attempting to heal the criminally insane. 
There are several drawers in the desk that 
contain a masterwork healing kit (8 uses 
left), 2 potions of cure moderate wounds 
(labeled in Common), a potion of cure 
serious wounds (labeled in Common), 2 
scrolls of remove paralysis, 2 scroll of lesser 
restoration, a scroll of restoration, and a 
scroll of dispel magic. All scrolls are of the 
minimum caster level necessary for the spell 
on that scroll. 
 
The desk also contains a small, unmarked 
brass key, which opens the secret door to 
Area 20. 
 
8. Upstairs Hallway
 
 
This corridor connects all the upstairs 
rooms. Lit torches along the wall provide 
light. The south side of the second floor of 
the sanitarium has five tall, barred windows. 
 
Any character listening outside the doors to 
Area 14 has a chance (Listen DC 18) to hear 
the sounds of messy eating and lips 
smacking. 
 
9. Chained to the Wall (EL 3)
 
 
These four rooms (Areas 9A – 9D) are small 
rooms with hand and foot manacles along 
the north wall and small drains grates in the 
floor. 
 
9A and 9B contain dead bodies (former 
healers) chained to the wall. They are going 
to be used as food by the ghouls in Area 14. 
If the PCs use speak with dead on the 
corpses they may learn of Nigel’s plans and 
the rift, if they ask the right questions. 
 
9C actually contains a ghast that is 
pretending to be an inanimate, dead body 
chained to the wall. If any characters 
approach within 10 ft. they will be affected 
by the ghast’s stench.  
 
 Ghast 
CR 3; Medium Undead; HD 4d12 (25 hp); Init +2 
(Dex); Spd 30ft.; AC 16 (+2 Dex, +4 natural); Atks 