   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 13 
 
Bite +4 melee (1d8+1 dmg and paralysis), 2 claws +1 
melee (1d4 dmg and paralysis); Face/Reach 5ft. by 
5ft./5ft.; SA Stench, Paralysis, Create Spawn; SQ 
Undead, +2 turn resistance; AL CE; SV Fort +1, Ref 
+3, Will +6; Str 13 Dex 15 Con – Int 13 Wis 14 Cha 
16. 
Skills: Climb +6, Escape Artist +8, Hide +8, Intuit 
Direction +3, Jump +6, Listen +8, Move Silently +7, 
Search +6, Spot +8. 
Feats: Multiattack, Weapon Finesse(bite) 
SA-Stench(Ex): Those within 10 ft. of a ghast must 
make a Fort Save (DC 15) or suffer a -2 circumstance 
penalty to all attack, saves, and skill checks for 
1d6+5 minutes. 
Paralysis(Ex): Those hit by a ghoul must make a Fort 
Save (DC 15) or be paralyzed for 1d6+2 minutes. 
Even elves are vulnerable to this paralysis. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any being slain by a ghast and 
not eaten by the creature will rise as a ghast in 1d4 
days. Casting Protection from Evil on the body 
prevents this. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Tactics: The ghast will wait until a 
character gets too close and becomes 
affected by its stench. It will then attack any 
character that looks like they are being 
affected by the stench. Disguises will not 
fool it because it knows its stench does not 
affect zombies. 
 
9D has no body in it (it did contain the one 
that the ghouls in Area 14 are currently 
feasting on). 
 
10. Surgical Room
 
 
This was perhaps some sort of surgery or 
healing room. A surgical table sits in the 
center of the room, covered in small 
cutting tools and vials. There are rinse 
basins along the east wall. Grated drains 
are set in the floor, and the floor itself is 
slightly angled so that liquid would flow 
from the table to the drains. 
 
 Treasure: If a character makes a 
successful Search (DC 10) and a Healing 
check (DC 10) then they can find enough 
small materials, bandages, and salves to 
make a one-use healing kit. 
 
11. Poltergeist (EL 2)
 
 
This room has the same description as Area 
10. However, a ghost resides in this room. It 
will not attack the players directly, but it 
will use its telekinetic power to animate 
several small scalpels from the surgery table 
to attack the characters. The ghost will have 
the scalpels attack anything that comes into 
the room, regardless of whether or not it 
believes the PCs to be zombies. Treat the 
scalpels as Tiny animated objects. The ghost 
has learned to use its power in this unusual 
way. 
 
The ghost itself will remain in the wall, so it 
will be imperceptible, unless a character 
uses a spell such as Detect Undead. The 
ghost is scared of the PCs and will not, 
under any circumstances, enter the room and 
confront them. 
 
If the characters flee the room, the scalpels 
and the ghost will not follow. If the PCs 
defeat the scalpels, the ghost will disappear 
through the outer wall and not come back 
into the room until the PCs leave. 
 
The stats for the ghost itself are not listed 
because it will retreat rather than face the 
PCs itself. 
 
 Animated Objects - Scalpels (4) 
CR 1/2 each; Tiny Construct; HD ½d10 (1 hp each); 
Init +2 (Dex); Spd fly 40ft.(perfect); AC 14 (+2 Dex, 
+2 size); Atks Thrust +1 melee (1d3-1 dmg); 
Face/Reach 2½ft. by 2½ft./ 0ft.; SQ Construct, 
Hardness 10; AL N; SV Fort +0, Ref +2, Will -5; Str 
8 Dex 14 Con – Int – Wis 1 Cha 1. 
SQ-Construct: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, disease, and similar effects. Not subject to 
critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy 
drain, or death from massive damage. 