   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 15 
 
opponents close distance, it is not smart 
enough to back up or otherwise maneuver 
intelligently.  
 
14. The Feast (EL 4)
 
 
Once the PCs open either door to this room, 
read the following: 
 
When you open the door, you see four 
figures crowded around a raised table. 
There is a body on the table and the four 
figures are obviously tearing off chunks 
of the body and eating it. One of them 
looks up in your direction, surveying 
you all with burning eyes. 
 
Have the ghoul make a Spot check opposed 
by the worst character’s Disguise. If it fails, 
the ghouls continue their dinner, ignoring 
the characters. If it succeeds, it hisses and 
attacks the PCs, followed closely by its 
companions. 
 
The room is obviously a surgical room, but 
is has been stripped on anything useful to 
the PCs. 
 
 Ghouls (4) 
CR 1 each; Medium Undead; HD 2d12 (20, 17, 13, 8 
hp); Init +2 (Dex); Spd 30ft.; AC 14 (+2 Dex, +2 
natural); Atks Bite +3 melee (1d6+1 dmg and 
paralysis), 2 claws +0 melee (1d3 dmg and paralysis); 
Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./5ft.; SA Paralysis, Create 
Spawn; SQ Undead, +2 turn resistance; AL CE; SV 
Fort +0, Ref +2, Will +5; Str 13 Dex 15 Con – Int 13 
Wis 14 Cha 16. 
Skills: Climb +6, Escape Artist +7, Hide +7, Intuit 
Direction +3, Jump +6, Listen +7, Move Silently +7, 
Search +6, Spot +7. 
Feats: Multiattack, Weapon Finesse(bite) 
SA- Paralysis(Ex): Those hit by a ghoul must make a 
Fort Save (DC 14) or be paralyzed for 1d6+2 
minutes. Elves are immune to this paralysis. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any being slain by a ghoul and 
not eaten by the creature will rise as a ghoul in 1d4 
days. Casting Protection from Evil on the body 
prevents this. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Tactics: The ghouls are ravenous for fresh 
meat, so they will attack the characters 
mercilessly and pursue them if they try to 
flee. If the PCs stand and fight, the ghouls 
will fight in pairs, each pair picking a 
character and trying to flank that person in 
combat. 
 
15. Basement Corridors (EL 4)
 
 
This area represents most of the basement, 
as there are many winding corridors and 
doorways that intertwine the basement. Any 
other area is labeled with a different number. 
 
The basement is dark and dingy, cut from 
the same dark granite blocks. Torches on the 
walls are less frequent down here, but there 
are still enough to provide adequate, if rather 
dim, illumination. 
 
Any character listening outside the door to 
Area 17 has a chance (Listen DC 13) to hear 
the sounds of clacking and shuffling. 
Listening outside Area 18 (Listen DC 23) 
could reveal the sounds of slight bumping 
noises. If the characters make a successful 
check (Listen DC 12) outside the door to 
Area 19 will hear the ghouls inside laughing 
and talking, though they will not be able to 
distinguish actual words from out in the 
corridor. 
 
A ghoul ogre wanders these corridors. The 
PCs have a 50% chance to encounter him 
every minute spent in any part of Area 15. 
The ogre was once an inhabitant in the 
nearby forest until his untimely death at the 
hands of a pack of ghouls. Now, he has been 
raised as a ghoul and the rift has drawn him 
here. 
 
Unlike most ghouls, he is neither 
particularly intelligent nor cunning. His job, 