   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 16 
 
given to him by Nigel Blackheart himself, is 
to guide the wraith’s “guests” to their 
“quarters” and make sure they are 
“comfortable”. So basically, the ogre acts as 
an oversized and clumsy undead butler. He 
is actually dressed in makeshift clothing that 
vaguely resembles a butler’s livery. 
 
If they are not disguised as zombies, the 
ogre will attack the PCs on sight. If they are, 
have him make his Spot check opposed by 
the worst character’s Disguise. If he believes 
they are zombies he will approach them in a 
friendly fashion and greet them in broken 
Common. He will ask them how they are 
doing, and if they are enjoying the 
festivities. 
 
If the PCs don’t respond to his greetings, he 
will prattle on for a bit, then try to lead them 
to the “zombie’s quarters” in Area 18. 
 
If the characters respond to his questions, 
the ogre will be glad to talk with them. 
However, after a few questions posed by the 
PCs, the ogre will remember that zombies 
aren’t supposed to talk. He will question 
them about this. Have the characters come 
up with an excuse or reason why they are 
talking. Then have one character roll a bluff 
check opposed by the ogre (Sense Motive 
+1). If the ogre fails, he believes them and is 
willing to talk as much as the PCs want. If 
he succeeds, he will attack them. 
 
The ogre knows a great deal about what is 
going on, but isn’t exactly bright. His 
responses depend on what the characters 
ask. Questions about Nigel Blackheart: 
“Master is entertaining most important 
guests in cat-er-coms.” Questions about the 
rift: “Funny room very important to Master. 
Supposed to keep things away from there.” 
Questions about the ogre’s name or its past: 
“Hmmm. Me no remember.” Feel free to 
improvise other responses. 
 
If the PCs fool the ogre into believing they 
are zombies and getting him to answer their 
questions, give them full XP for defeating 
the creature. They do not get this reward if 
they later fight the ogre for any reason.  
 
 Ogre Ghoul 
CR 4; Large Undead; HD 5d12 (35 hp); Init +0; Spd 
30ft.; AC 16 (-1 size, +7 natural); Atks Bite +9 melee 
(1d8+7 dmg and paralysis), 2 claws +4 melee (1d4+3 
dmg and paralysis); Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./10ft.; SA 
Paralysis, Create Spawn; SQ Undead, +2 turn 
resistance; AL CE; SV Fort +1, Ref +1, Will +4; Str 
22 Dex 10 Con – Int 7 Wis 12 Cha 13. 
Skills: Climb +12, Intuit Direction +2, Jump +12, 
Listen +5, Search +4, Spot +4. 
Feats: Multiattack, Weapon Finesse(bite) 
SA- Paralysis(Ex): Those hit by a ghoul must make a 
Fort Save (DC 14) or be paralyzed for 1d6+2 
minutes. Elves are immune to this paralysis. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any being slain by a ghoul and 
not eaten by the creature will rise as a ghoul in 1d4 
days. Casting Protection from Evil on the body 
prevents this. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Tactics: Once provoked, the ogre ghoul is a 
vicious opponent. He will use his 10 ft. 
reach and paralysis to help offset the fact 
that he will probably be outnumbered by the 
PCs. 
 
16. Dark Room (EL 7)
 
 
This room is a simple cell with many tiny 
cots in it. Before the sanitarium was taken 
over by the wraith, several insane inmates 
lived here.  
 
Now the room is completely dark. Many 
shadows live in here, enjoying the darkness. 
If a PC opens the door to this room, nothing 
will happen. The room inside will be 
completely dark, and no one will be able to 
see inside without darkvision. Even 
characters with darkvision will only notice 