   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 19 
 
SA- Paralysis(Ex): Those hit by a ghoul must make a 
Fort Save (DC 14) or be paralyzed for 1d6+2 
minutes. Elves are immune to this paralysis. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any being slain by a ghoul and 
not eaten by the creature will rise as a ghoul in 1d4 
days. Casting Protection from Evil on the body 
prevents this. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
 
 Zombies (4) 
CR 1/2 each; Medium Undead; HD 2d12+3 (21, 16, 
16, 15 hp); Init –1 (Dex); Spd 30ft.; AC 11 (-1 Dex, 
+2 natural); Atks Slam +2 melee (1d6+1 dmg); 
Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./5ft.; SQ Undead, partial 
actions only; AL N; SV Fort +0, Ref –1, Will +3; Str 
13 Dex 8 Con – Int – Wis 10 Cha 1. 
Feats: Toughness 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Partial Actions Only(Ex): Zombies have poor 
reflexes and can perform only partial actions. Thus 
they can move or attack, but can only do both if they 
charge (a partial charge).
 
 
Tactics: The ghouls will try to get the 
zombies to engage the PCs first, to take the 
brunt of the attack. Then ghouls will then 
dart in where they see weakness and attack. 
 
20. Secret Storage
 
  
The door to this room is hidden (Search 21), 
and also locked (Open Lock DC 30). The 
keyhole is cleverly disguised as a small 
crack in the mortar. The key from Area 7 
will open this door. 
 
This room is a secret stash of the Knights of 
Furyondy, in case they ever had to use the 
sanitarium as a defensible base. 
 
 Treasure: In the corner, piled neatly 
under a tarp, are the following items: 2 +1 
longswords, 2 masterwork large steel 
shields, a suit of banded mail, an 
adamantine breastplate, a masterwork 
composite longbow, 10 +2 arrows, 10 vials 
of holy water, 3 potions of Cure Moderate 
Wounds, a potion of cat’s grace, a scroll of 
raise dead, boots of the winterlands, and 
gauntlets of ogre power. 
 
21. Drainage Room (EL 3)
 
 
This is a mostly featureless room, except for 
a door in the north wall. The door leads to 
another drainage pipe, which collects blood 
in a barrel. 
 
An insane wight, a former inmate, waits in 
the shadows here. Spot checks opposed by 
the wight’s Hide check are required to 
notice it. If it does not believe the zombie 
disguises or the group is not disguised, it 
will attack immediately, attempting to gain 
surprise. If it does believe the zombie 
disguises, it will still stay hidden and watch. 
Any un-zombie-like behavior (e.g. talking, 
casting a spell) will provoke an immediate 
attack. 
 
 Wight 
CR 3; Medium Undead; HD 4d12 (26 hp); Init +1 
(Dex); Spd 30ft.; AC 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); Atks 
Slam melee +3 (1d4+1 dmg and energy drain); 
Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./5ft.; SA Energy Drain, Create 
Spawn; SQ Undead; AL LE; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, 
Will +5; Str 12 Dex 12 Con – Int 11 Wis 13 Cha 15. 
Skills: Climb +5, Hide +8, Listen +8, Move Silently 
+16, Search +7, Spot +8. 
Feats: Blind-Fight 
SA-Energy Drain(Su): Living creatures hit by a 
wight’s slam attack receive one negative level. The 
Fortitude save to remove the negative level is DC 14. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any humanoid slain by a wight 
becomes a wight in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under 
command of the wight that created them. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 