   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 20 
 
Tactics: The wight will attack, attempting to 
gain surprise and hit flatfooted characters. It 
will not stop until it has been destroyed. 
 
22. Negative Energy Gate (EL 5)
 
 
The door to this room is not locked, but it is 
trapped. Any living creature (not undead) 
that attempts to open this door will set off 
the trap. The bolt of lightning will travel 
down the corridor outside the door from east 
to west (most likely hitting all nearby 
characters!). 
 
 
Lightning Blast: CR 3; 5 ft. wide, 20 ft. long 
blast (3d6 dmg); Reflex Save (DC 13) avoids; Search 
(DC 26); Disable Device (DC 25). 
 
This room is actually two connected rooms, 
both completely dark. There is a slight 
illumination from the shimmering edges of 
the gate itself, but characters without 
darkvision will require their own light 
source to see in here. When they can see into 
the room: 
 
You see a drainage pipe come out of the 
ceiling. But nothing lies underneath it, so 
what looks like blood has pooled under 
the pipe. Hovering between the pool and 
the pipe is a strange floating sliver of 
darkness a few feet long. The edges 
glow with a faint blue light, but the 
center is blacker than anything you have 
ever seen before. Looking at the strange 
phenomenon gives you an uneasy 
feeling. There is an archway to your 
right, which leads to another dark room. 
You can hear a strange murmuring 
sound coming from in there. 
 
The murmuring is the Babble attack from an 
allip. Every character within 60 ft. must 
make a save or be affected. Then the allip 
will move out of the darkness to attack. The 
allip was a particularly insane inmate, now 
set here by Blackheart to guard the rift. 
 
 Allip 
CR 3; Medium Incorporeal Undead; HD 4d12 (30 
hp); Init +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improv. Init.); Spd fly 30ft. 
(perfect); AC 15 (+1 Dex, +4 deflection); Atks 
Incorporeal touch +3 melee (1d4 permanent Wisdom 
dmg); Face/Reach 5ft. by 5ft./5ft.; SA Babble, 
Wisdom Drain, Madness; SQ Undead, Incorporeal, 
+2 turn resistance; AL NE; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, Will 
+4; Str – Dex 12 Con – Int 11 Wis 11 Cha 18. 
Skills: Hide +8, Intimidate +11, Intuit Direction +4, 
Listen +7, Search +7, Spot +7. 
Feats: Improved Initiative 
SA-Babble(Su): All sane creatures within 60 ft. of the 
allip must succeed at a Will Save (DC 16) or be 
affect as though by a Hypnotism spell for 2d4 rounds. 
This is a sonic, mind-affecting compulsion. 
Opponents who successfully save cannot be affected 
by the allip’s babble for one day. 
Wisdom Drain(Su): Those whose Wisdom is reduced 
to 0 by the allip become helpless until at least one 
point of Wisdom is restored. 
Madness(Su): Anyone targeting the allip with a 
mind-control or telepathic ability takes 1d4 points of 
temporary Wisdom damage. 
SQ-Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, 
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not 
subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability 
damage, energy drain, or death from massive 
damage. 
Incorporeal: Can be harmed only by other incorporeal 
creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, with 
a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal 
source. Can pass through solid objects at will, and 
own attacks pass though armor. Always moves 
silently.
 
Tactics: The allip will move in and ignore 
any characters affected by its Babble attack. 
It will concentrate its efforts on the 
remaining characters. If the characters flee 
the room, the allip will not pursue, as it was 
instructed to guard the room and the rift. 
 
The darkness that the PCs are seeing is the 
rift to the Negative Material Plane created 
by Nigel Blackheart and his allies on the 
other side. Any character foolish enough to 
touch the rift must make a Fort Save (DC 
17) or die. Even if the save is successful, 
that character still takes 3d6 points of 
damage. If negative energy protection or 
death ward protects the character, then they 