   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 21 
 
are not affected, but their spell instantly 
expires in a quick flash of light. 
 
The rift is the source of power for Nigel and 
the other undead in the sanitarium. The 
characters have several possible ways to 
close the rift here. 
 
• Any priest or paladin attempting to turn 
the rift can close it, if they succeed in a 
check as if to turn an 8 HD undead. 
• The PCs can attempt to dispel the magic 
that holds the rift open. A dispel magic 
check against a DC 17 will close the rift. 
• Any vial of holy water thrown at the gate 
has a 5% chance of closing the gate. 
Throwing multiple vials simultaneously 
increases the chance (e.g. 4 vials gives a 
20% chance), but they must all hit the 
gate at the exact same instant (the PCs 
may have to devise something clever to 
make this work). 
• Nigel’s power is part of what is keeping 
the gate open. If he is destroyed, the gate 
will close on its own. 
 
For the effects of successfully closing the 
rift, see the CONCLUDING THE 
ADVENTURE section at the end of the 
module. 
 
23. Catacombs (EL 7)
 
 
The door to this room is a standard 
sanitarium door, and is not locked. 
 
This area is unlike the rest of the 
sanitarium. It is hewn rock, dug out of 
the hillside. Many small shelf-like slots 
set in the walls contain coffins and 
skeletal bodies. Obviously this is some 
sort of catacomb or burial room for the 
sanitarium. Glowing braziers light the 
area, and you can see the passageway 
divides ahead of you. 
 
The catacombs have a few twists and turns. 
When the PCs reach the northeast corner (or 
sneak up to see what is there), read the 
following: 
 
Several undead gather around a chair or 
a throne made of crates. They are 
bowing and scraping to a figure sitting in 
that makeshift throne. The figure is 
merely an insubstantial-looking shadowy 
outline, with burning red eyes. 
 
The figure on the throne is the wraith of 
Nigel Blackthorn. He is in the thralls of his 
madness, and is currently incapable of 
perceiving living beings. So he will ignore 
the PCs unless he is directly attacked (at 
which point he will become aware of their 
presence and fight back). 
 
His loyal subjects are, however, capable of 
seeing the PCs. If the characters sneak up on 
the scene, and if they go unnoticed, then 
they you can have them watch as the lesser 
undead fawn and cater to the wraith. If they 
are having trouble figuring out what is going 
on in the sanitarium, you can have Nigel 
speaking to his subjects of his plans 
(hopefully giving the PCs all the knowledge 
they need). 
 
If the PCs are still disguised, and the other 
undead see them, roll Spot checks for these 
undead to see if they see through the worst 
character’s disguise. If they do, they cry out 
and attack. 
 
If the disguises fool them, they order the 
“zombies” back to the zombie room (Area 
18). Speaking, or failure to immediately 
comply, will reveal the true nature of the 
PCs to the undead and they will attack 
immediately. However, remember that Nigel 
will not attack unless he is directly affected 
by the PCs. 
 