   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 23 
 
contains: Nigel’s spellbook (see NPC 
APPENDIX for complete spell listing), 3 
100 gp pearls, 1000 gp emerald, a 500 gp 
gold bracelet set with tiny rubies, a potion of 
intelligence, a ring of counterspells (empty), 
a staff of fire (11 charges left), and an +2 
amulet of natural armor. 
 
 
CONCLUDING THE 
ADVENTURE 
 
If the PCs choose to fight Nigel Blackheart, 
and win, the rift closes. 
 
If the PCs try to close the rift in Area 22 
before beating Nigel, and they succeed, 
several things happen. All skeletons and 
zombies in the sanitarium collapse into 
lifeless, inanimate bodies. The rest of the 
undead in the sanitarium will sense the rift 
disappearing, and will flee into the woods as 
best they can. If you wish, Nigel can either 
flee also (and maybe begin plotting the 
downfall of the PCs… a good setup for a 
future adventure), or he can immediately 
find the characters by passing through walls 
and attempting to destroy them. If your 
group of PCs is rather weak after closing the 
rift, you may wish to go with Nigel fleeing. 
If they are still strong, then a fight with the 
wraith can be a good wrap-up. 
 
If the group closes the rift in any way 
(including defeating Nigel), award a 1000 
XP group story award, to be divided 
amongst the players. Award 100 XP to any 
character that excelled in getting 
information for the group (such as the 
history of Nigel Blackheart or his plans). If 
the group closed the rift in way other than 
defeating Nigel, award 300 XP to the 
character most instrumental in closing the 
rift. Obviously, the group should get XP for 
any creatures or traps they successfully 
defeated as well. 
 
 
SCALING THE ADVENTURE 
 
Use the table below to scale the module for 
your PCs. If you have more than four PCs or 
a mixture of levels, figure out what their 
equivalent level total would be for a group 
of four and use that section. (e.g. If you have 
6 PCs, all 4
th level, they have a total of 24 
levels. That is the same as a group of 4 PCs, 
all 6
th level. Use the 6th level group scaling.) 
 
1
st level group – Not recommended. This 
module is probably beyond this type of 
group. If you insist, use the 2
nd/3rd level 
party scaling, but also have Zander the 
ranger come with the group into the 
sanitarium and fight with them. 
2
nd or 3rd level group – Halve the number 
of all undead (1 being the minimum 
encounter). Nigel Blackheart will not, under 
any circumstances, fight with the group. 
Closing the rift in Area 22 requires a turn 
check against a 5 HD undead or a dispel 
magic against a DC of 14. Holy water will 
work the same. 
4
th level group – Run the module as-is, but 
have Zander tell the group that they can 
retreat into the forest to rest if they need it. 
Zander will watch over the group while they 
sleep in the forest, although he will still not 
accompany them into the sanitarium. There 
is really no safe place to rest in the 
sanitarium… have a few zombies or ghouls 
wander in on a resting group every hour or 
so until they get the hint. 
5
th level group – Run the module as-is. It is 
optimized for a group of this level. 
6
th level group – Run the module as-is. If 
the group closes the gate in Area 22, Nigel 
Blackheart is much more likely to come 
after them right there. 
7
th level group – This can still be 
challenging for a group of this level. Have 
more of the undead make Spot attempts to 