   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 25 
 
 
 Nigel Blackheart, the wizard wraith: Wraith Wiz4 (necromancer): CR 9; Medium Undead 
(Incorporeal, 5 ft. 6 in. tall); HD 5d12 + 4d4 (40 hp); Init +7 (+3 Dex, Improved Initiative); Spd 
30 ft., Fly 60 ft. (good); AC 15 (+3 Dex, +2 deflection); Atk +7 melee (1d4 dmg and 1d6 
permanent Constituition drain, Incorporeal Touch); SA Spells, Constitution Drain, Create 
Spawn; SQ Undead, Incorporeal, +2 Turn Resistance, Unnatural Aura, Daylight Powerlessness; 
AL LE; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +10; Str -, Dex 16, Con -, Int 17, Wis 14, Cha 15. 
Skills: Concentration +7, Hide +11, Intimidate +10, Intuit Direction +6, Knowledge (arcane) 
+10, Listen +12, Search +10, Sense Motive +8, Scry +10, Spellcraft +10, Spot +12. 
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Casting, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Spell 
Mastery (ray of enfeeblement, scare, vampiric touch). 
Special Abilities: Constitution Drain(Su): Living creatures hit by a wraith’s incorporeal touch 
attack must succeed at a Fort Save (DC 14) or suffer 1d6 points of permanent Constitution drain. 
Create Spawn(Su): Any humanoid slain by a wraith becomes a wight in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are 
under command of the wraith that created them.  
Special Qualities: Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, 
stunning and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, 
or death from massive damage. Incorporeal: Can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, 
+1 or better magic weapons, or magic, with a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a 
corporeal source. Can pass through solid objects at will, and own attacks pass through armor. 
Always moves silently. Unnatural Aura(Su): Both wild and domesticated animals can sense the 
unnatural presence of the wraith at 30 ft. They will not willingly approach nearer than that and 
panic if forced to do so. Daylight Powerlessness(Ex): Wraiths are utterly powerless in natural 
sunlight (not merely a Daylight spell) and flee from it. 
Possessions: Spellbook (0
th level – all. 1st level – cause fear, chill touch, detect undead, identify, 
mage armor, magic missile, ray of enfeeblement, sleep. 2nd level – darkness, melf’s acid arrow, 
scare, spectral hand. 3rd level – lightning bolt, vampiric touch) 
Spells Memorized: 0th level(DC 13) – daze, mage hand, open/close, ray of frost. 1st level (DC 14) 
– cause fear, chill touch, mage armor, magic missile, ray of enfeeblement. 2nd level (DC 15) – 
darkness, melf’s acid arrow, scare, spectral hand. 
Description: The wraith is the restless spirit of the evil necromancer, Nigel Blackheart. He 
appears as a shadowy outline of his former self, with burning red eyes. Because of his close ties 
with the Negative Elemental Plane, he retained some of his spellcasting power when he died, 
although much of his power was lost when he became a wraith. He has regained possession of 
his most basic spellbook (it was taken from him when he was imprisoned here). His other books, 
with his higher-level spells are lost, and Nigel believes them destroyed. But he also believes that 
he will draw far greater power from the rift anyway. 
Tactics: Nigel’s madness makes him only marginally aware of the living on this plane. He will 
not attack them unless provoked (see Area 23 for details) or perhaps if the rift has been closed by 
the PCs (see CONCLUDING THE ADVENTURE for details). If he does fight, he prefers to use 
his spells in combat, casting defensively if he is engaged. He will first cast mage armor to 
protect himself, and then use offensive spells. If he runs out, or his spells are proving ineffective, 
he is not averse to attacking with his powerful wraith touch. Once he begins attacking, nothing 
will stop Nigel until he is destroyed. He will travel through walls to get to his target. 
 
 