   Module Workshop  A Dead Man’s Party - Page 27 
 
 
14 Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to 
make it enforceable. 
 
15 COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0 Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
 
 
T
HE D20 SYSTEM® LICENSE VERSION 1.0 
 
By downloading the enclosed graphic files and/or by returning the Confirmation Card as presented in the file "card.pdf," the Licensee ("You") 
accept to be bound by the following terms and conditions: 
 
1.  Copyright & Trademark 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. retains title and ownership of the d20 System trademark logos, the d20 System trademark, and all other copyrights and 
trademarks claimed by Wizards of the Coast in The Official Wizards of the Coast d20 System Trademark Logo Guide version 1.0, incorporated 
here by reference. 
 
2.  License to use 
You are hereby granted the non-transferable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the d20 System trademark logos, the d20 System 
trademark, and certain other trademarks and copyrights owned by Wizards of the Coast in accordance with the conditions specified in The 
Official Wizards of the Coast d20 System Trademark Logo Guide version 1.0. (the "Licensed Articles") 
 
3.  Agreement not to Contest 
By making use of and/or distributing material using the d20 System Trademark under the terms of this License, You agree not to contest the 
ownership of the Licensed Articles  
 
4.  Breach and Cure 
In the event that You fail to comply with the terms of this License, You will be considered to be in breach of this License.  Wizards of the Coast 
will attempt to notify you in writing by sending a Registered Letter to the address listed on the most recent Confirmation Card on file, if any. You 
will have 45 days from the date the notice (the "cure period") to cure the breach to the satisfaction of Wizards of the Coast.  If no Confirmation 
Card is on file, you will be considered to be in breach of this License immediately. 
 
5.  Termination 
If, at the end of the cure period, the breach is not cured, Wizards of the Coast may terminate this License without further written notice to You. 
 
6.   Effects of Termination 
Upon termination, You shall immediately stop all use of the Licensed Articles and will destroy any inventory or marketing material in Your 
possession bearing the d20 System Trademark logos.  You will remove any use of the d20 System Trademark logos from your advertising, web 
site, letterhead, or any other use.  You must instruct any company or individual that You are or become aware of who is in possession of any 
materials distributed by You bearing the d20 System Trademark logos to destroy those materials.  You will solely bear any costs related to 
carrying out this term of the License. 
 
7.  Penalty for Failure to Comply with Termination Instructions 
If You fail to comply with the Effects of Termination, Wizards of the Coast may, at its option, pursue litigation, for which You shall be 
responsible for all legal costs, against You to the full extent of the law for breach of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, damages and 
any other remedy available. 
 
8.  Updates 
Wizards of the Coast may issue updates and/or new releases of the d20 System Trademark logos without prior notice.  You will, at the earliest 
possible opportunity, update all material distributed by You to use the updated and/or new version of the d20 System Trademark logos.  You may 
continue to distribute any pre-existing material that bears an older version of the d20 System Trademark logo. 
 
9.  Changes to Terms of the License 
Wizards of the Coast may issue updates and/or revisions to this License without prior notice.  You will, at the earliest possible opportunity, 
conform in all respects to the updated or revised terms of this License.  For a period of 90 days You may continue to distribute any pre-existing 
material that complies with a previous version of the License.  Thereafter written consent should be obtained from Wizards of the Coast.  
Subsequent versions of this License will bear a different version number. 
 
10.  Updates of Licensee information 
You may transmit an updated version of the "card.pdf" Confirmation Card at any time to Wizards of the Coast.   
 
11.  Notices to Licensor:  
 
Wizards of the Coast 
d20 System License Dept. 
PO Box 707 
Renton, WA  98057-0707 
 
12.  No maintenance or support 