 

 

Written by: Interior Art:
Lance Hawvermale John Bridges, Becky Jollentsen, Brian LeBlanc,
Gary McKee, Richard Thomas, Tyler Walpole,
Developer: and Diane Zamojski
Bill Webb
Front Cover Art:
Producer: Llyn Hunter
Clark Peterson
Cartography:
Editor: Jason Walton
Kevin Walker, Scott Greene
Front & Back Cover Design:
Managing Editor: Mike Chaney
Andrew Bates
Playtesters:
Art Director: Chad Coulter, Travis Hawvermale, John Lewis III,
Mike Chaney Rachel Mason, Rob Mason.
Layout and Typesetting: Special Thanks:
Mike Chaney ToTravisfor traps, riddles, and fire-fighting. To Scott

for exemplary monster work. To Rob for the caves and
acareful eye. To Skeeter Green for the contest-

 

winningspells.

Product Update Password for A Lamentation of Thieves: Hawkmoon

This product requires the use of the Dungeons and Dragons® Player’s Handbook, Edition 3.5

NECROMANCER
GAMES

THIRD EDITION RULES,
FIRST EDITION FEEL,

published by Wizards of the Coast®

©2003 Necromancer Games, Inc. Al rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of the
publisher isexpressly forbidden. Necromancer Games, Necromancer Games, Inc.and the Necromancer Gameslogo,
Tome of Horrors, A Lamentation of Thieves, What Evil Lurks and other Necromancer Games product names are
trademarks of Necromancer Games, Inc. All characters, names, places, items, artand text herein are copyrighted by
Necromancer Games, Inc. Sword & Sorcery Studio, the Sword & Sorcery Studio logo, Relics & Ritualsandall Sword
& Sorcery Studio product names are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc and are used by permission. “D20
System” and the D20 System logo are trademarks owned by Wizards ofthe Coast and are used under the terms of the
D20 Trademark License contained in the Legal Appendix. The mention of or reference to any company or product
in these pages is nota challenge to the trademark or copyright concemed. Dungeons and Dragons® and Wizards of
the Coast® are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast, and are used in accordance with the Open Game and D20
Trademark Licenses contained in the Legal Appendix.

This book uses the supematural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes onl. Reader discretion is advised.

Check out Necromancer Games online at

htp:/Avww.necromancergames.com

PRINTED IN CANADA.

 
