 

A Lamentation of Thieves is a campaign setting and a
collection of adventures, as well as a sourcebook of new
feats, skills, spells, monsters, and magic items. The mate-
rial herein describes the features and denizens of a large
geographical area, a vast tapestry through which is woven
the strands of several distinct plots, each with its own
possibility for adventure. More than a simple linear
storyline, A Lamentation of Thieves presents players with
the chance to set their own goals, make their own paths,
and choose their own enemies. The region’s NPCs work
constantly to advance their particular agendas; in dealing
with these folk, the heroes become entangled in quests
ranging from the prosaic to the profound. One day they
might help a farmer bring in his harvest before a deadly
storm wipes out the crop. The next morning they might
uncover a plot to assassinate a powerful noble.

Adapting the Adventures

The action takes place in the Domain of Hawkmoon, how-
ever, it can easily be relocated to any fantasy campaign. Adjust
thenamesof people, places,and godsas appropriate. Though the
adventures presented in A Lamentation of Thieves have been
written for PCs of specific experience levels, they can easily
accommodate characters of a variety of levels by simply increas-
ingordecreasingthenumberand/orpowerofthemonsters. Refer
to the Encounters section of the DMG to find an Encounter
Level (EL) that matches the PCs’ level, then cross-reference this
to find an appropriate number of creatures. For example, the
encounter with 4 beetle-wraiths in Chapter Two is EL 9 as
written, but can easily become EL 7 by limiting the encounter to
2 creatures, or EL 11 by adding 4 additional beetle-wraiths. The
Advancementportion ofthe Main Statistics Blocksection in the
MM provide tips on altering size, hit dice, and other monster
statistics. Remember that adjusting the Encounter Levels also
affects the adventure’s overall difficulty and thus the final
experience point (XP) award.

As the DM, you should have at your disposal the core
tulebooks, including the PHB, DMG, and MM. Text, which
appears in shaded boxes, is to be read or paraphrased to the
players. New monsters, spells, skills, feats, martial arts, and magic
items are detailed in the Appendix.

Howto Use This Module

ALamentation of Thieveshasthree distinct “levels” of storylines.
Atthe bottomare those plotsarisingfrom casual interaction with
the mundane masses, such as ranchers, blacksmiths, sailors, et
cetera. Usually it is up to youas DM to initiate plots at this level.
‘These adventures are intended for low-level characters and are
described in Chapter One.

The second level concerns those plots of far-reaching
importance, the resolution of which affects an entire
region. Whereas the conclusion of a “level one” plot might
only be meaningful to the NPCs personally involved in the
conflict, the final outcome ofa “level two” plot impacts the
lives of dozens, if not hundreds of people. A good example
of this is found in the adventure “Through the Crimson
Caves,” which details the struggles between the goblins

and bugbears of a hidden, magical vale. In this storyline,
the fate of two entire clans hangs in the balance. There is
even a chance of reviving an extinct race of otherworldly
travelers!

At the third and final plot level, there is only a single
storyline. This grand scheme pervades the entire region
and brings into play elements from all other plot levels.
The events that unfold in Chapter Three resonate through-
out the Domain of Hawkmoon and all those who dwell
within it—even if they don’t realize it. Ripples the heroes
make here might very well cause unexpected waves.

The plot levels reveal themselves in stages, so that simple
matters give way to scenarios of increasing significance. While
the heroes might begin their stay in the Domain by clearing out
aswarm of pesky stirges, their final struggle is against forces far
greater than they ever imagined inhabiting this humble region.

Starting the Adventure

The PCsare free to explore the Domain as they see fit. In fact,
wilderness treks play an important role in the ongoing action,
often turning into impromptu adventures in between “planned”
scenarios. To present the players with as dynamic a setting as
possible, simply give them a copy of the map entitled “The
DomainofHawkmoon,”andletthemstrikeouttoany of thesites
depicted, in whatever order they desire.

The easiest way torun the scenarios in thisbook istoplay them
in the sequence they're presented. However, there’s nothing to
say that the PCs can’t head off immediately to the mysterious
Rubicund Chasm in “Through the Crimson Caves” (designed
for PCs of 9th level), only to return later and face the mad priest
of “A ScentofEvil” (for PCsof 4th level). In thiscase, simply alter
the ELs as previously discussed.

The following information is both a gazetteer of the land and
a collection of corresponding adventure hooks. Many of the
places detailed here are in no way connected with any particular
storyline, but can quickly develop into full-fledged adventures
witha little work. Other townsand locations on the map thatare
more closely tied to the storylines are detailed within the
adventures in which they appear (e.g., the town of Swordport is
described in “A Scent of Evil” in Chapter One). When admin-
istering the PCs through the Domain, keep in mind the true
magic of the stage illusionist: allow the characters to roam freely,
butlet thisbe the misdirection that keeps their eyes off your other
hand, with which youare deftly insertingplanned scenarios with
the aplomb of a magician making miracles from thin air.

Continuing the Plot

The material presented in these pages has been designed to
encompass a wide range of gaming styles and many sessions of
play. Again, the PCs may tackle the challenges in any order they
like, and just because they've completed all the quests contained
in thismodule doesnot mean they've exhausted the possibilities
for adventure in the Domain. The conclusion of one storyline
often gives rise to the beginning of another. For specific ex-
amples, refer to the sections labeled Continuing the Adventure
following each adventure. One thing's for certain: in a land of
thieves, the intrigue never stops.
