Overview of the

They say the Domain of Hawkmoon was carved with a
robber’s knife and bought with robber’s gold. Encircled by
the treacherous Scar-in-the-Sky Peaks and the Moonsilver
Sea, the Domain is geographically isolated, its borders
forming a natural barrier against invaders—as well as a
wall to dissuade its inhabitants from leaving. The region is
said to be a haven of footpads, a place of succor for
criminals fleeing persecution. There is indeed a bit of truth
to these rumors, as the Domain was first settled three
hundred years ago by marauders seeking a refuge against
the armies of those nations they’d violated. Echoes of this
grim legacy can still be heard today.

At the heart of the Domain is the city of Hawkmoon, an
independent city-state that answers to no foreign power.
The land outlying the city—the Domain itself—is offi-
cially a protectorate of Hawkmoon but not part of the
sovereign state itself, In other words, though Hawkmoon
troops patrol the land, the Outfolk (as those beyond the
city walls are called) are not beholden to the crown nor in
any way obliged to follow its mandates. The Outfolk pay
no taxes to the mayor of Hawkmoon, though they do use
his city as the primary base for the selling of their crops and
manufactured goods. This strange dichotomy is the result
of the region’s oldest and most revered tradition: Our
ancestors came here to escape authority's oppressive grasp, and
we shall not dishonor them by submitting.

The Domain of Hawkmoon, then, teeters on the brink
of anarchy.

Surprisingly, there is very little violence in the area. For
the most part, the denizens are hardworking folk, mainly
farmers, ranchers, fishermen, and miners. Without the
burden of taxes, they are able to earn enough money
through their respective vocations to enjoy happy ifsimple
lives. However, as the mayor has no hand in their affairs,
it’s up to them to maintain their roads, sewage systems, and
other pieces of the infrastructure. As a result, there is no
consistency in road upkeep or local law enforcement.
Some towns have very equitable and efficient lawmen,
while others are under the thumb of thugs who call
themselves constables. Many towns employ foreign mer-
cenaries as law officers. One town might impose strict
penalties on gambling and prostitution, while another
might be founded upon promoting such pursuits.

Murder is rare in the Domain, but robbery of various sorts
isrampant. There is only one formal thieves’ guild in the area,
founded by a famous ex-adventurer named Sivian Ulphar,
known as the Lucte King. Though the Lucre King has no
direct competition from rival guilds, small independent out-
law bands abound, ranging from debonair brotherhoods of cat
burglars to savage gangs ofhighwaymen. Many of these groups
exist in a constant state of war with one another. Others are
elusive professionals who consider their work as a form of art.
Cattle-rustlers, grifters, safecrackers and cutpurses—the Do-
main has them all.

Wandering Monsters
Though some say there is no such thing as coincidence,
oftentimes the PCs run into trouble that seems entirely
random at the time. Whether or not there is cosmic
significance to these events remains a debate for the
philosophers, while the nasty business of fighting off these
random encounters is left to the PCs. Refer to the MM for
the statistics of these creatures. Roll 1d12 per five miles
traveled on the following table:
1d12_— Encounter
12 2d4 wolves
Merchant, bard, gypsies, et cetera
Truncher patrol (244 3rd-level warriors)
Highwaymen (1d6 2nd-level rogues)
3d6 stirges
Roll again; 1-10 = no encounter
Soul sand (see below)

 

In lieu of taxes, the merchants of the Domain find their
money going to support groups of bounty hunters and
trackers colloquially known as Trunchers. Part constables
and part mercenaries, the Trunchers are sponsored by
certain towns or business consortiums to keep the area free
of those who would prey on shipping lines. Not surpris-
ingly, the quality of the Truncher groups ranges
dramatically, from the honorable to the execrable. Again,
the only thing consistent from one Outfolk town to the
next is inconsistency.

The Bonegarden

Marring the pleasant grassland of the Pampas, this small
area of scorched earth is much like a malignant growth on
an otherwise healthy body. Knownas the Bonegarden, this
is a place of eternal decay, a centuries-old cemetery filled
with the restless corpses of the marauders who first settled
the Domain. Legend holds that only convicted thieves
were buried here, those who'd died while incarcerated or
who were killed while trying to escape. The people of that
long-ago age perpetuated an unhealthy fear of spirits,
believing all too strongly in the power of the dead to haunt
the days of the living. In an effort to confine the souls of the
dead robbers, the people turned to their priests, who
decreed the construction of a roughly circular cemetery
grounds, a full mile in diameter. Upon this burial site they
placed their mightiest wards, ensuring that the dead re-
mained that way.

Unfortunately, those priests and their gods faded with
time, along with their magic. Though the crumbling
stone wall maintains enough residual sorcery to prevent
a spirit from passing beyond the perimeter, it does noth-
ing to regulate the souls within the circle itself. In an

 
