ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

effort to confine the spirits of the dead thieves, the priests
unwittingly blocked them from entering the afterlife; the
spells were too efficient for their own good. Now the
cemetery is an incubator of undead.

The locals refer to this place as the Bonegarden, a
labyrinth of mausoleums, tombs, and broken headstones,
a cramped and confusing warren of old stone and older
malice. Here the walking dead wage war with one an-
other, struggling for control of the cemetery that contains
them.

Using the Bonegarden: Populate the Bonegarden
with undead of sufficient power to challenge the PCs. A
group of low-level characters exploring the Bonegarden
meets with ghouls and skeletons, while a high-level party
must face the Blood Governor himself—a lich! The
Bonegarden is a place of catacombs and partially pillaged
tombs, and as such, it serves as the resting-place for
several bizarre discoveries; in other words, insert won-
drous items of your own creation, things that even
experienced players find exciting. Likewise, use your own
maps to represent the shallow caverns that the undead
have dug to connect their burrows. The creatures have
divided themselves into two distinct camps, each under
the direction of a leader with the magical skills necessary
to command a horde of undead. These leaders are en-
emies from the days of old, a pair of former friends named
Ristiko and Karthe who used to lead a robber band
together and share in the spoils. Buta woman intervened,
and the friends were doomed to an eternity of questing for
her favor. With the exception of the reclusive Blood
Governor himself, Ristiko and Karthe are the two stron-
gest undead in the Bonegarden, which they have
transformed into a battlefield. How their war plays out is
entirely up to you. If you’d prefer the PCs handle things
diplomatically, enable them to bring about an armistice
by giving the woman’s corpse a final resting place by
clearing her tomb of interlopers. Or perhaps you decide
that Ristiko was the true malefactor, betraying his friend
for the woman’s love. In this case, the PCs’ mission is to
destroy Ristiko’s army so that Karthe and the woman may
dwell together peacefully. To this end, they must pen-
etrate Ristiko’s lair, steal an item sacred to him, and
perform a ceremony with this item under the light of the
morning sun.

Mud Town

Concealed in the crags of the badlands at the base of
the Scar-in-the-Sky Peaks, this cluster of shanties is a
haven of outlaws, pariahs, and other social misfits. Once
a prosperous mining colony, Mud Town is now a commu-
nity in ruin; over twenty years ago it was buried in a
massive landslide, the majority of its inhabitants suffo-
cating under tons of rock and mud. Only a few dozen
buildings survived the calamity, and they've since be-
come the lairs of all manner of miscreants. These rowdies
are under the nominal leadership of a human named
Intarmu the Eye. Once the leader of a feared robber band,
Intarmu is now the self-proclaimed burgomaster of Mud
Town. According to rumor, the despicable Intarmu had

his eyes torn out as punishment for looking upon a
nobleman’s wife; he is blind and “sees” through a magical
lens he wears on a headband. Under Intarmu’s leader-
ship, Mud Town has become a den of bacchanalian
desires. In Mud Town, no fetish is too depraved, no need
left unsatisfied.

Using Mud Town: Intarmu the Eye is actually an ogre
under the cover of a polymorph spell placed upon him by
the covey of green hags. The covey is the true controlling
force behind Mud Town. The magical lens Intarmu wears
is a hag eye that permits the covey to spy upon the town
and its important personages. You can use Mud Town in
a variety of ways, depending on the nature of your
campaign. If the PCs are of a slightly shady bent, Mud
Town is a good hideout. Trunchers often come here
undercover in search of outlaws, but there are always folk
willing to hide a fugitive if the money is right. Mud Town
can also be a place of rowdy relaxation, its gambling
houses, brothels, and taverns offering all manners of
diversions considered socially taboo. If the PCs are in-
stead righteous crusaders, Mud Town isa pit of wickedness
in dire need of cleansing.

Whatever their reason for visiting Mud Town, the PCs
eventually come into contact with the covey. The green
hags lair in a cave a few miles away, protected at all times
by 1d8 ogres and 1d4 hill giants. The cave is concealed
by mirage arcana. If the PCs have come to town as
fugitives or pleasure-seekers, Intarmu welcomes them,
plies them with wine and games, and attempts to trick
them into accepting a disguised hag eye. If the PCs have
come to roust the criminals from Mud Town, the hags
respond accordingly. They use dream, control weather,
and bestow curse to harass the heroes. Intarmu uses his
authority as burgomaster to rally the citizens against the
PCs. Any citizens killed by the PCs are returned via the
covey’s ability to animate dead.

Mud Town (small town): Conventional; AL CN;
623-gp limit; Assets 35,160 gp; Population 1,129; Mixed
(human 75%, half-orc 10%, dwarf6%, gnome 4%, halfling
3%, elf 1%, half-elf 1%).

Authority Figures: Intarmu the Eye, male human Ftr8
(actually an ogre under a polymorph other spell).

Important Characters: Ashvor DuVajis, male half-ore
Rog8 (owner of town’s largest gambling pit, The
Bloodhawk), Mistress Milania, female human Rog5
(owner of the Silver Slipper bordello), Tarn Portivara,
male half-orc Exp7 (toxicologist and Sivian Ulphar’s
informant), Nisvock the Collector, male dwarf Ftr3 (junk-
seller and rumor-vendor).

Others: Town guards, War2 (x 11); Com] (x 1,114).

Weir Wood

Well removed from any civilized trade roads, the forest
of Weir has for centuries grown ungoverned by druids and
uncharted by woodsmen. This isolation—and perhaps a
bitof dark magic from long-forgotten curse—has allowed
the Weir to become a crucible for all sorts of life forms that
are usually kept in check by the hands of man. Specifically,
poisonous flora abounds in this dense and murky wood.

 
