 

OVERVIEW OF THE DOMAIN OF HAWKWOOD

The treetops are so thickly entwinedas to cover the ground
in continuous shadow, permitting the rampant growth of
lichen, fungi, and myriad mosses—many species of which
are quite inimical to human life. Asa result, few mammals
stalk the forest, save those immune to the various natural
toxins. Certain creatures have adapted over the years to
flourish in these environs, representing new genetic strains
of common fauna: deer, rabbits, and several type of vermin
have evolved into species entirely different from the
ordinary members of their kind. Needless to say, someone
found a way to turn a profit from these anomalous crea-
tures. Any hunter foolish or desperate enough to brave the
dangers of the Weir and bring out the body of one of these
mutated animals is sure to command a high price from the
sale of its strangely mottled pelt, fantastically arrayed
antlers, and oddly flavored meat.

Using the Weir: Anyone courageous enough to face the
deadly spores and fever-inducing pollen of the forest must
make a Fortitude save (DC 15) against the poison for every
1d4 hours spent there, with failure indicating any manner
of ailment: delirium, severe rashes, nausea, even blindness,
paralysis, and death. These effects can be negated by the
usual magical means. In fact, the protection of spells is
necessary for anyone planning an extended foray into the
forest. For all of its perils, there’s much to be found

within the Weir, including trees of rare wood, such ?
as the ash-colored cinderheart (a wood totally
resistant to fire), as well as powerful healing yp

herbs. Nearly any kind of herbal spell compo-
nent can be found here. The hooves, hides, and

horns of the mutant animals fetch anywhere
from 2 to 200 gp, depending on the buyer and
the nature of the item. The exact appear-

ance of these odd creatures is left to your
imagination.

One special type of fungus native to the
Weir is the twilight mushroom. This dan-
gerous plant, which cannot exist when
exposed to daylight, is detailed in the New
Monsters section of the Appendix.

One reason for the PCs to venture into the Weir
is if they discover the existence of an entity known as
the Ageless Oracle. If the heroes find a map or receive
instruction on how to reach a certain point in the Weir,
they discover that the Oracle is actually a treant. The
Oracle is a huge specimen, its wood as black as the earth
into which its gigantic roots plunge to what is rumored to
be the heart of the world. Though surrounded by deadly
lichen and ferns coated with natural contact poison, the
treant itself is not harmful, but rather quite benign. The
Oracle is as old, as wise, and as forthcoming as you need it
to be. It knows the location of long-lost magic items, it
knows secret entrances, true names, fairy tales, riddles, and
the answers to riddles. Its sap cures any disease.

The Dehari River

As the Domain’s largest water channel, the Dehari
plays an important role in the land’s economic well-
being. Even the most sizable of barges are capable of

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  

 
 
  
 

 
