ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

navigating much of the river’s length, from its mouth in
the Miasmoor to its headwaters north of the Forlorn
Mountains. Being a major byway for merchants moving
large quantities of heavy goods, the river sees a high
degree of pirate activity. These river-robbers favor the
marshes of the Miasmoor for their hideouts, and ply their
grisly trade from small, agile rafts that are easily hidden in
the tall reeds and sawgrass of the swamp. The river is
nearly half a mile wide at its broadest point, making it
very difficult for would-be lawmen to curtail the pirate
enterprise.

Using the Dehari: The Dehari is home to pirates, but
also to one form of predator that keeps these pirates from
becoming too secure in their adopted sanctuary: will-o-
wisps dwell in the Miasmoor. As for the river itself, any
manner of freshwater creatures can be found here. The
pirates are also a constant threat to water-borne PCs. No
pirate is more feared than Kalabhiti, a rakshasa who’s
been on the local most-wanted lists for nearly a dozen
years. By using his ability to mask his true form, Kalabhiti
is able to change faces as it pleases him, so that even his
own pirate crew cannot predict his next incarnation.
Kalabhiti has proven too cunning to be apprehended by
bounty hunters, his elusiveness aided greatly by a won-
drous item known as the nowhere globe.

Whenever the nowhere globe is spun in its frame, it
creates a magical field that acts as a more potent version
of the spell invisibility sphere, affecting everything within
a50-foot radius. However, the globe must be in motion for
the spell to perpetuate, thus it normally requires someone
to be standing nearby to spin it when it begins to lose
momentum. Tohis credit, Kalabhiti was ingenious enough
to invent a way to keep the globe turning without con-
stant supervision. Years ago, the rakshasa and his pirates
besieged a grain mill on the riverbank, killed the miller
and his family, and promptly set about erecting an appa-
ratus that connected the globe to the gears of the mill.
Now when the waterwheel turns the mechanisms inside
the building, it’s not the millstone that moves, but rather
the globe. The entire mill is now invisible, the perfect
hideout for Kalabhiti and his men. As long as the
waterwheel keeps turning, the rakshasa’s lair remains
undetected. Place the mill anywhere along the Dehari
you prefer (the mill is not depicted on the map, as it’s
invisible!). For details of the nowhere globe, refer to New
Magic Items in the Appendix.

Soul Sand

One of the most dreadful natural features of the Do-
main is soul sand, a magical quicksand that sucks in the

life force of its victim, rather than the victim’s body. Soul
sand occurs primarily around the area of the Miasmoor,
appearing as pools of thick gray liquid. Occasionally a
bubble rises up from the liquid. At night, soul sand is
nearly impossible to see (Spot check [DC 30]), although
in the daylight this becomes much easier (DC 20). Soul
sand is the bane of all living creatures.

Using soul sand: The PCs never learn the true nature of soul
sand unless they spend extensive time and money researching
the subject. Soul sand is not a “free-standing” anomaly like
quicksand, but rather it is a portal linked to a fell plane—most
likely the Abyss. Anyone who touches a pool of soul sand must
make an immediate Will save (DC 15) or begin to lose contact
with their very soul. The nature of the portal is such that it
attempts to draw the spirit into the Abyss. A successful save
means that the character mentally resists this effect. A failed
save deals 1d8 points of damage and forces the character to
make another Will save (DC 20) in the next round. Success
enables the character to pull free, failure deals 2d8 points of
damage and forcesa third and final Will save (DC 20) in round
three. Failing this means the PC takes 3d8 points of damage,
and his body floats spiritlessly atop the “sand” as his soul is
sucked into the Abyss.

At any time during the three rounds of struggle, the
character’s friends may attempt to “pull” him to safety
using the force of their collective willpowers. For every
friend lending his strength to the effort, the DC for the
saving throw is reduced by 2, so that three friends assist-
ing in the third round permits the character to attempt a
Will save (DC 14). A lost soul can only be retrieved by
miracle or wish. If you like, you may permit a lost PC to
attempt to find his or her way out of the Abyss, but this
requires extensive additional work on your part. Note
that patches of soul sand are not depicted on the map, not
allowing the PCs to know for sure when they are likely to
stumble upon the next patch.

Other Areas

Not every locale depicted on the map is detailed here.
As previously discussed, many of these areas not de-
scribed, such as the Rubicund Chasm, appear in later
chapters. Five other sites on the map are described in
Necromancer Games module G2: What Evil Lurks, in-
cluding the Druid’s Grove, Gaunt Wood, the Factory,
the Sawmill, and the village of Leafton. Refer to that
product for more information concerning these places.
They are not necessary to the adventure contained in this
module and are listed on the map merely to show the
correlation of locations.

 
