 

Chapter One:

Though the possibilities for adventure in a region as large as
the Domain are virtually limitless, four storylines are presented
in this chapter to serve as guidelines for writing your own
encounters. The plots involved in these mini-adventures are
limited in scope, and each can usually be played in the course of
single gaming session. In this chapter you'll also learn of anew
prestige class and several new feats for use by those who prefer to
fight unarmed. These are fully detailed in the Appendix. The
four storylines are summarized below.
© A body has been found in the famous Darkstar Hall.
This inn and tavern, detailed in the adventure “Death
at Darkstar,” may very well serve as the PCs’ base of
operations during their stay in the Domain. The murder
of a traveling mage leads to revelations of betrayal
within the thieves’ guild and the wonders of a long-
dormant artifact. Here the PCs have the chance to learn
several new feats for use with martial arts.

A shipment of sculptor’s tools has mysteriously disap-
peared. In “Sculpting Fate,” the PCs come upon the
remains of a wagon train recently attacked by highway-
men. One of the caravan’s survivors enlists their aid in
recovering a crate of highly expensive equipment and
delivering it to the curator of a wax museum in
Hawkmoon.

In “A Scent of Evil,” members of a Jubilex cult calling
themselves the Murk Traders have begun a concen-
trated effort to expand their operation. One of the many
ways they intend to do this is through a priest named
Oojisho. In the sewers under the town of Swordport,
Oojisho concocts a deadly toxin, with which he intends
to contaminate the city’s water supply.

“Dark Sky Rising” serves as an amusing diversion be-
tween other, more serious quests. It involvesa mysterious
rainmaker and a town besieged by an invisible evil that
lives in the clouds.

Deathat Darkstar

This introductory adventure is a murder mystery de-
signed for four PCs of Ist level, though it can easily
accommodate characters of virtually any level simply by
altering the experience level and abilities of the murderer.
Since the storyline is primarily a classic whodunit, its
successful completion requires thought rather than brute
force, and thus it is appropriate for PCs of all levels.

Darkstar Hall isa good place for the heroes to use as their base
of operations while traveling the wilds of the Domain. A fully
detailed map is provided so that you might use the inn asa lasting
location in yourcampaign, even after the adventures in this book
have been played to their completion. Look to the Appendix for
alist of new martial arts forms available for players to incorporate
into their character's repertoire, should they elect to learn such
skills from Lady Zan.

.

Adventure Background

Owned by aretired thief name Eron, Darkstar Hall is the
most renowned inn throughout the Domain. The building
itself is built against an ancient tower. Some say the tower
was built by extra-planar beings and predates the first
human settlements in the region. Others believe it to be
the former home of a wizard slain by Sivian Ulphar the
Lucre King, head of the Hawkmoon thieves’ guild. But all
agree that the tower is a repository of fading magic; even
today the residue of sorcery permeates its crumbling walls.

Eron married a monk called Lady Zan, and together they
established Darkstar Hall, named after the chunk of black
rock on display in the common room—a rock they say is a
fragment of a fallen star. Lady Zan has mastered several
forms of unarmed combat and uses one of the inn’s rooms
as her training area. She routinely entertains guests who
practice martial arts, and the inn has become something of
a haven for itinerant warrior-philosophers. Many such
individuals roam the Domain in search of either enlight-
enment or, for those less spiritually minded, one of the
many caches of robber’s gold said to be buried throughout
the land. Lady Zan, part mystic, part matron, is friend to all
who seek to hone their physical abilities.

Darkstar Hall is a grand edifice, three stories tall, with
the tower extending even higher. The building is well
tended; its wood painted and polished, its various pieces
and parts kept in fine repair by the staff of scullery maids,
porters, and groundskeepers. The inn stands at the busy
Kie-Vye Crossroads, meaning that its taproom is nearly
always filled with travelers, ranging from merchants to
Trunchers to adventurers, of all races and dispositions;
anything and anyone can be found here.

The taproom is rarely completely empty. Even during
the wee hours, one barman is always on duty, in the event
that a late-night patron stumbles in out of the rain and
seeks to warm his throat with a mead and his hands by the
fire. The inn offers two dozen beds for nightly rent, with at
least two-thirds of them occupied at any given time.

Eron, Male Human Rog10: CR 10; SZ M (5 ft., 2 in.
tall); HD 10d6; hp 33; Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; AC 14 (+4 Dex);
BAB/Grap +7/+8; Atk +9 melee (1d6+1, masterwork
short sword, 19-20/x2) or +11 melee (1d4+4, +3 dirk
(dagger), crit 19-20) or +12 ranged (1d8, light crossbow
plus masterwork light crossbow bolts, 19-20/x2, range 80
ft.) +14 ranged (1d4+4, +3 dirk, 19-20/x2, range 10 ft.);
Full Atk +9/+4 melee (1d6+1, masterwork short sword,
19-20/x2) or +11/+6 melee (1d4+4, +3 dirk (dagger) , crit
19-20) or +12/+7 ranged (1d8, light crossbow plus master-
work light crossbow bolts, 19-20/x2, range 80 ft.), or +14
ranged (1d4+4, +3 dirk, 19-20/x2, range 10 ft.); SA sneak
attack (+5d6); SQ trapfinding, evasion, trap sense (+3),
