 

CHAPTER ONE: FOU

However, his plan to make off with the Star is temporarily
delayed when Lady Zan puts the inn in a lock-down.

To solve the crime successfully, the heroes must sift the
true clues from the false ones, averta feud between Toomba’s
supporters and rivals from another church, and uncover
the truth about the devious Branke before he slips through
their fingers.

 

This plot works best if you give the PCs a chance to
mingle with the various NPCs before Yugin is murdered.
Perhaps the characters spend their first evening at the inn
down in the taproom, listening to Toomba talk about his
deity, hearing Branke tell a story in front of the fireplace,
meeting Leopold and his party, et cetera. Perhaps they
meet Yugin himself and share a glass of wine with him, and
the next morning one of the other NPC accuses them of
“talking suspciously” with the victim the night before the
murder.

Tohelp you keep track of the adventure’s 19 NPCs (any
one of which might be the killer, for all the PCs know),
they are listed here alphabetically, along with their alleged
alibi, ifany. Note that those who say they were alone at the
time of the murder may not have anyone to substantiate
their claim, and are thus still highly suspect. For more
information on these NPCs, refer to their individual room

descriptions.

Areth 1 He was in the kitchen (false).

Branke 15 He was writing a story in his room
(false).

Eron 24 He was sleeping in his room (true).

Gandir 19 He was sleeping in his room (true)

Ginna 16 She was in her room, with Tinan (true).

Hinda 2 She was with Pol, at their home (true).

Invis = 13 She was sleeping in her room (true).

Kristoff 8 He was alone in his room (true).

JR ROADS TO RICHES

 

She was sitting on the roof in medita-
tion (true).
He was in his room with Sareth (true).

Lady Zan 24

Laranger 21
Leopold 17

He was asleep in his room (false).

Lors 10 He was alone in his room (true).

Marion 13 She was in the kitchen (false).

Pol 2 He was not on the property, but at
home (true).

Rathen 18 He gives no alibi, unless forced; he was
in Area 2 (true).

Sareth 20 He was in Laranger’s room (true).

Shalindra 14 She gives no alibi, unless forced; she
was in Area 25 (true).

Tinan 16 He was in the room he shares with

Ginna (true).

Toomba 9 He was in his room (true).

Locations Within Darkstar Hall

1.Taproom

The commons room of Darkstar Hall seats 40 comfort-
ably, and can easily accommodate up to 20 more if
additional chairs are used. Add to this another 15 folk at
the bar, and it’s easy to see that the taproom is a bustling
place on most evenings. The floor is polished hardwood,
the bar is a massive slab of imported rosewood, accented
with shiny brass fixtures. A deep gouge mars one end of
the countertop. If asked, any of the inn’s regulars tells
the PCs that the gouge was made by the wayward axe of
a barbarian from the Scar-in-the-Sky Peaks who got
drunk one night a year ago and mistook the barkeep for
the man who stole away his wife

One of the six servants, Areth, can be found here
during the PCs’ investigation, scrubbing the stones in

  

  

10
