ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

front of the hearth. Areth has small room in the stable.
If asked where he was at the time of the murder, he says
he was in the kitchen, looking fora bite to eat. In reality,
he was rummaging around in Tower Level Two (Area
22), hoping to find something interesting to steal. A
successful Sense Motive check opposed by Areth’s Bluff
check tips the PCs off to his fib. Marion the masseuse
(Area 13) also claims to have been in the kitchen, and
their conflicting lies might tip the PCs off that some-
thing is amiss.

Areth, Male Human Com1: CR 1/2; SZ M (5 ft., 3 in.
tall); HD 144; hp 4; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; AC 10; BAB/
Grap +0/+2; Atk +2 melee (1d4+2, dagger, 19-20/x2);
Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+2, dagger, 19-20/x2); ALN; SV
Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +2; Str 14, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 13,
Wis 14, Cha 8.

Skills: Bluff +2, Climb +4, Listen +4, Profession
(stablehand) +7, Spot +4. Feats: Great Fortitude, Skill
Focus (Profession [stablehand]).

Possessions: Dagger, rabbit’s foot, and pouch of 4 sp.

Personality: Areth is young and brash, but also cow-
ardly and eager to please. He’s convinced that no one in
this world is going to help him survive, so it’s up to him
to steal what he can, when he can. He is impressed with
adventuring types, especially male warriors, and—though
he'll never admit it—he desires to be a “good boy,” and
would very much like for one of the PCs to invite him to
accompany them in their travels.

Two large flagstone fireplaces provide the taproom
with continual warmth, even in the dreary winter months.
Atop the mantles sit various souvenirs and odds and
ends, trinkets left behind by travelers and mementos
given to the inn’s owners over the years. Practically
anything could be found here; the simplest adventure
hook is often a mysterious object. Examples include the
following:
© a jar containing a human finger that does not decay
* a scroll case containing a message in an indecipher-

able script
© a sword hilt with a few inches of broken blade
© an umber hulk horn
© a snuff box that plays a haunting tune when opened

1A. Black Rock

On display in the taproom is what appears to be a
chuck of glassy black stone, roughly spherical, some
sixteen inches in diameter. Inn patrons refer to this
simply as the Star, as it is reputedly a piece of the
firmament fallen to earth and recovered by whatever
mysterious personage once dwelled in the adjacent tower.
When Eron bought the property, he cleaned out the
tower, and while doing so unearthed what he believed to
be a celestial stone. Since then, traveling spellcasters
have many times attempted to divine the properties of
the Star, but their magic has always been rebuffed. The
only thing that’s certain is that the Star is highly resis-
tant to all applications arcane.

Unbeknownst to Eron or anyone else at the inn, the
rock is actually a piece of extra-planar protomatter

11

known as nullium. As one of the foundingstones of
Creation, nullium’s physical properties are beyond the
ken of mortals. Though its applications in the building
of the Prime Material Plane were surely multitudinous,
only one of its traits is in any way usable by man: nullium
absorbs magic. No spell of any kind affects the Star and
all attempts at divination concerning it are in fact drawn
into it and negated.

Sivian Ulphar, legendary guildmaster of the
Hawkmoon thieves, came upon the truth of nullium
quite accidentally during one of his sojourns into the
Outer Planes. After learning that a chunk of nullium
resided in his very own Domain, he promptly sent an
agent to retrieve it. Upon arriving at Darkstar Hall
yesterday morning, Yugin Vooshae walked straight to
the Star, pretending to examine it while placing his
hands upon it and surreptitiously attempting to teleport
away with it. Of course, the nullium absorbed the spell
and nothing happened. Yugin spent the remainder of
the day watching the routine of the inn’s employees so
that he could gauge the best moment to lift the Star from
its perch and abscond with it. Unfortunately for him, the
halfling Branke decided it was time to defect from
Sivian’s guild; he’d steal the Star for himself and sell it
for enough money to start his own thiefly organization.

The Star weighs around 20 pounds. It lifts easily off its
metal holder. No spell the PCs cast at it, nor weapon
they bring to bear against it, can leave the faintest mark
upon its surface.

2. Kitchen

Allof the inn’s menu is prepared here, one of the most
well stocked kitchens the PCs are likely to encounter.
Virtually any kind of cooking ingredient can be found
here, including rare spices and seasonings. Two master
chefs, a married man and woman named Pol and Hinda,
are usually found here. They live in a small cottage half
a mile down the road.

Neither Pol nor Hinda was on the premises at the time
of the murder. During the wee hours, if a traveler
wanders in and needs a warm meal, one of the chamber
maids usually heats up a bowl of the day’s stew, so the two
chefs are not required to be at the inn at all times.

Pol and Hinda, Male and Female Humans, Com3:
CR2;SZM (5 ft., 5 in. tall); HD 3d4; hp 7 each; Init +1;
Spd 30 ft.; AC 11 (+1 Dex); BAB/Grap +1/+3; Atk +3
melee (1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed); Full Atk +3 melee
(1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed); AL LG; SV Fort +1, Ref
+2, Will +2; Str 14, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 9, Wis 13, Cha
10.

Skills: Climb +3, Gather Information +2, Jump +7,
Listen +3, Profession (cook) +5, Spot +3. Feats: Point
Blank shot, Skill Focus (Profession [cook]), Skill Focus
(Jump).

Possessions: Pol and Hinda carry nothing with them
during the workday, though they keep 33 gp in their
home.

Personality: Pol is a large, robust man, full of life and
love for all. He is honestly anguished over the death of

 
