 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

someone in the very inn where he works. In his heart of
hearts, he is a pacifist, and wishes that everyone could
just get along. He engages the PCs in intimate discus-
sions of nearly any topic they choose, offering them
choice treats from his oven, mothering them if they
show any signs of sickness, and basically treating them as
saints—as he treats everyone. Hinda, on the other hand,
isa little more cynical. Not so quick to extend her good
wishes, Hinda speaks guardedly, half-inclined to think
that the PCs themselves might have something to do
with the murder. She’s truly a kind person, but her
husband’s naive openness sometimes needs the temper-
ing of a watchful wife.

3. Privy

This latrine services the first floor. As it stands so near
the kitchen, Hinda ensures that it is always fresh smell-
ing so as not to offend. A burning stick of incense goes
a long way to concealing the smell.

4. Dry Storage

All oversized containers are kept here, including 50-
Ib. bags of flour, hogsheads of tobacco, and crates of dry
goods. Behind the door is a well-worn club that Hinda
calls “Marla.” She'll drag it out whenever the patrons in
the taproom get too rowdy with their drink. Though
Hinda doesn’t know it, Marla is actually a +1 club.

§- Closet

This closet contains cleaning supplies, including mops,
brooms, rags, and the like. A successful Search check
(DC 12) uncovers a silver bracelet that Hinda lost
months ago. Should it be returned to her, she lets down
her guard a bit, deciding that maybe the PCs aren’t such
bad folk, after all.

6. Tower Level One

Though the ancient tower offers no clues to the
murderer’s identity, its four cobweb-covered levels do
hold the truth as to the Star’s origin, thus partially
illuminating the motive behind the crime. Eron and
Lady Zan use Tower Level One asa storage area. Dwarves
and others with knowledge of stonework easily see the
age of the rock walls and the strength of the mortar,
which has held these bricks fast through the centuries.
The items here include boxes of nails, tools, and lumber
for the inn’s upkeep, a vat of honey that Eron uses for his
home-brewed mead, a crate full of old clothes, and a
variety of weapons, should the need arise to defend the
property from invaders: four longbows, six longswords,
200 arrows, and a masterwork short sword. The spiral
staircase leads up to Area 22.

7. Well

Lady Zan permits the PCs to leave the building in
order to search the surrounding grounds. The nearby
stable is not detailed here, but it contains only the usual
accoutrements for such a place. The brickwork of the
well is tidy and freshly painted. The shaft itself drops

down 30 feet to the waterline. The water is 10 feet deep,
and there it encounters a submerged stream that winds
away for several miles. However, resting at the bottom of
the well is a mace with a wooden handle. This is the
murder weapon. The mace belongs to the priest Toomba,
but Branke stole it. After slaying Yugin, Branke used his
thiefly skills to slip outside and drop the mace into the
well—fully intending that it is found and Toomba impli-
cated in the crime. Descending into the well requires a
successful Climb check (DC 20, DC 12 ifa rope is used).
Once at the bottom of the 10 feet of water, the mace is
relatively easy to find ifa Search check (DC 10) is made.

With the mace in hand, the PCs must determine its
owner. The simplest way to do this is asking around. Any
of the priests of either faction (Zahm and Quooembla)
know that the mace belongs to Toomba, leader of the
Zahm coterie. Zahm is the god of money and business
(neutral alignment), while Quooembla is the god of
wisdom (neutral good alignment). Substitute these names
with deities from your own campaign. The Quooembla
priests are alarmed if they learn that Toomba appears to
be involved in the crime, and they call a hasty meeting
to discuss their next move. As rivals to the church of
Zahm, these priests stop at nothing to undermine
Toomba’s integrity, thus striking a blow against the
church entire. Shortly after the mace’s discovery is made
public, Leopold, head of the Quooembla faction, de-
mands that Toomba be placed under arrest. This incites
Toomba’s associates, and a shouting match ensues. The
tension between the two groups escalates as the PCs
progress in their investigation, so that eventually the
heated words are replaced with weapons. The PCs then
have the dual task of solving the murder and keeping the
warring parties from tearing the inn down around their
heads.

If confronted with the mace, Toomba pleads igno-
rance. For his full response, refer to Area 9.

8. Stateroom

This room rents for an exorbitant 5 gp per evening,
but that includes the works: hot baths, multi-course
meals, fine wines, and even a complimentary massage.
The appointments here are lavish, from the four-poster
bed to the fresh flowers. An array of windows looks out
over the countryside, and a fireplace provides constant
comfort for the chilly traveler. This room actually ex-
tends out from the southwest corner of the inn, much
like a glass-enclosed balcony.

The night of the murder, a foreign academician named
Kristoff occupies this room. As a highly regarded sage of
human physiology, Kristoff has a reputation to uphold,
and rarely deigns to mingle with the commoners in the
taproom. He has stopped at Darkstar Hall to give his
mind a little relaxation after an intense week of schol-
arly debates with area pundits. After the body is
discovered, Kristoff is seen skulking about, peering over
the edge of the gathered onlookers, wearing his black
robe and leaning heavily on his staff of sablewood. No
one at the inn knows much about him, and Kristoff
proves rather elusive, retreating to his room and thus

2
