ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

with others, he pulls no punches when dealing with
supporters of what he considers “evil” faiths.

to. Lors’ Quarters

Lors is a quiet, gentle custodian who has worked with
Eron and Lady Zan since the day they bought the
property. Though he only speaks to patrons if directly
addressed, Lors does at times converse with the other
servants while taking dinner in the kitchen. Lors is a
physical specimen, standing nearly seven feet tall, his
plain homespun tunic stretching across a mountain
range of shoulders. Sadly, Lors doesn’t have much of an
alibi; he was alone in his room, with no one to verify his
story.

Lors, Male Human Com2: CR 1; SZ M (6 ft., 8 in.
tall); HD 2d4+2; hp 8; Init +3 (Dex); Spd 30 ft.; AC 13
(+3 Dex); BAB/Grap +1/+4; Atk +4 melee (1d3+3
nonlethal, unarmed); Full Atk +4 melee (1d3+3 nonle-
thal, unarmed); AL NG; SV Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +3;
Str 17, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 11.

Skills: Climb +4, Concentration +2, Diplomacy +2,
Disable Device +5, Gather Information +3, Intimidate
+2, Listen +5, Perform (juggling) +1, Spot +5, Swim +7,
Use Rope +5. Feats: Combat Reflexes, Skill Focus
(Swim).

Possessions: none.

Personality: Lors is painfully shy. He is an honest man,
but an unambitious one. Though his size, strength, and
physical skills could take him down any number of
worthy careers, including that of adventurer, he chooses
to remain at Darkstar Hall, silently performing his duties
as custodian. If one of the PCs forms a friendship with
Lors, the custodian might overcome his reticence and
inquire about the possibility of receiving training, per-
haps in the fighting arts. Lors loves Eron and Lady Zan
as if they were his parents. He has a secret crush on the
seamstress, Invis (Area 13).

u. Privy

The chambermaid Invis finds Yugin Vooshae’s body
here at dawn. Her piercing scream awakens the charac-
ters, along with nearly everyone else in the inn. Shortly
after the discovery, Lady Zan seals off the building, as
described above.

Examining the body requires an Intelligence check
(DC 12). Success reveals that Yugin was definitely
struck from behind by a heavy, blunt object, by someone
at least as tall as Yugin himself. Because of the cramped
conditions in the privy room, the murder weapon couldn’t
have been more than a couple of feet long, as there’s not
space to swing a longer item. A single blow was all it took
to end Yugin’s life, and by the looks of it, that blow was
a powerful one. The attack was well placed and effi-
ciently delivered; the killer knew what he or she was
doing. These conditions might lead the PCs to believe
that Kristoff the anatomist was involved (incorrect), or
that a thief—trained in the art of the sneak attack—
might have delivered the fatal stroke (true).

15

Yugin was probably struck by someone who is right-
handed, although only Kristoff can provide the PCs with
this knowledge, if they ask him to examine the body.

Yugin was dressed in his sleeping robe at the time of
his death. The robe is now a bloody mess. Around
Yugin’s neck hangs the key to his footlocker (Area 12).

12. Sleeping Room (EL1)

There are six sets of bunk beds in this room, permit-
ting 12 persons to sleep here. This is the room the PCs
are given if they stay at the inn as guests. The charge is
a mere 1 cp per night (3 cp with bath, 1 sp with one
meal). Each bunk is numbered, with a corresponding
numbered footlocker nearby.

Yugin Vooshae was boarding in this room at the time
of his death. If the PCs met him the previous evening in
the taproom, they might well know this fact. Yugin slept
in bunk number six. His footlocker is locked, and the key
is found on his corpse. The lock may be picked with an
Open Lock (DC 13). Inside is his nondescript traveling
clothes, asmall pouch of 22 gp, his spellbook, anda small
metal slipcase. The spellbook contains the following
spells: mage hand, mending, animate rope, jump, alter self,
haste, polymorph , and teleport.

The slipcase is closed with a simple brass clasp, but it
is trapped so that unless the clasp is turned in the proper
sequence, a hidden needle pricks the holder's finger.
Only Yugin knows the sequence, so the only way to
avoid the trap is to first locate it, then remove it.

Poison Needle Trap: CR 1; mechanical; location
trigger; manual reset; Atk +8 ranged (1 plus greenblood
oil poison); Search DC 22; Disable Device DC 22.

The slipcase contains a small book that served as
Yugin’s notebook and ledger. As an agent of Sivian
Ulphar, Yugin kept notes in this tome concerning his
various assignments. He also used the book to keep track
of his expenses so that he might be reimbursed upon
returning to Hawkmoon. Feel free to place within the
book anything to spur further adventures surrounding
the fabled thieves’ guild of Hawkmoon. The only entry
that pertains to this adventure is the last, which details
Yugin’s mission to secure the Star for Sivian Ulphar.
The book contains no information on the nature of the
Star, only that Yugin was under orders to steal it. The
PCs may learn more of the Star if they search the ancient
tower (Areas 6, 22, 26, 27). Finally, Yugin has under-
lined one particular note to himself: BEWARE OF
TRAITOR IN GUILD! WHO ELSE WANTS STAR???

13. Servants’ Q uarters

Two of the inn’s six staff members sleep here. Invis
and Marion are responsible for cleaning and general
upkeep around the inn. Both are young, unmarried
women in their early twenties. Invis is also an accom-
plished seamstress, while Marion is a skilled masseuse.
When Yugin Vooshae was killed, Invis was in this room
sleeping, and Marion was downstairs getting a snack
from the kitchen—or so they claim. A successful Sense
Motive check opposed by Marion’s Bluff check leads the

 
