 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

PCs to believe that she is not telling the entire truth.
Actually, she was in Leopold’s room (Area 17), giving
him a massage. Astute PCs remember that Areth the
servant also claimed to be in the kitchen at the time
Yugin was killed ... so were Areth and Marion both in the
kitchen, or is one of them lying?

Invis and Marion, Female Humans Com1: CR 1/2;
SZM (5 ft., 5 in. tall); HD 1d4-1; hp 3 each; Init -1; Spd
30 ft.; AC 9 (-1 Dex); BAB/Grap +0/+1; Atk +1 melee
(1d3+1 nonlethal, unarmed); Full Atk (1d3+1 nonle-
thal, unarmed); AL LG; SV Fort -1, Ref -1, Will +2; Str
12, Dex 8, Con 8, Int 11, Wis 15, Cha 11.

Skills: Bluff +2, Handle Animal +4, Jump +3, Knowl-
edge (local) +1, Listen +3, Profession (seamstress [Invis],
masseuse [Marion]) +4, Spot +2. Feats: Run, Skill Focus
(Handle Animal).

Possessions: 2d4 sp each.

Personality: Invis is prim and businesslike, while
Marion is a starry-eyed romantic. Invis firmly believes
she’ll be a chambermaid or serving wench until the day
she dies, while Marion dreams of being swept off her
feet and taken away to an enchanted land to live out
her days amid elven song, sweet wine, and peppermint-
scented breezes.

14. Shalindra’s Room

Shalindra is a tall, elegant woman with lustrous black
skin and haunted eyes. Exceedingly beautiful, Shalindra
is actually a duchess from a foreign land, here at Darkstar
Hall to set up trade relations with Rathen (Area 18).
She has a great storm of hair, woven with beads and
silver threads, and is almost always seen in diaphanous
gowns of pale blue silk. She refuses to vouchsafe knowl-
edge of her noble heritage or details of her mission. Only
if one of the PCs is of particularly stately bearing does
Shalindra openly converse of the murder. She otherwise
remains aloof. At the time that Yugin Vooshae was
slain, Shalindra and Rathen happened to be conducting
asecret assignation in the Privacy Chamber on the third
floor (Area 25). As their trade alliance would under-
mine certain powerful individuals in the Domain (namely
Sivian Ulphar, who has tentacles in the shipping indus-
try), neither Shalindra nor Rathen readily come forth
with the truth, even if it’s the only means of establishing
an alibi. If the PCs interview Shalindra, on a successful
Spot check (DC 12) they notice that her earring is an
intricate affair of onyx and platinum, but she’s only
wearing one of them. She doesn’t realize that she lost the
other one (it can be found in Area 25).

Shalindra, Female Human, Ari9: CR 8; SZ M (5 ft.,
6 in. tall); HD 948; hp 41; Init +5 (Dex, Improved
Initiative); Spd 30 ft.; AC 13 (+1 Dex, +2 ring); BAB/
Grap +6/+7; Atk +7 melee or +7 ranged; Full Atk +7/+2
melee or +7/+2 ranged; AL N; SV Fort +3, Ref +4, Will
+7; Str 13, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 18.

Skill: Diplomacy +12, Disguise +9, Forgery +7, Handle
Animal +15, Intimidate +12, Knowledge (geography)
+3, Knowledge (heraldry) +10, Listen +3, Perform (harp)
+9, Sense Motive +10, Spot +3. Feats: Alertness, Im-

proved Initiative, Leadership, Skill Focus (Handle Ani-
mal), Skill Focus (Intimidate).

Possessions: 1,300 gp in assorted gemstones in silk
pouch, 3,200 gp in jewelry, potions of charisma and detect
thoughts, and a +2 ring of protection.

Personality: As previously noted, Shalindra is proud of
her noble birth and guarded with her secrets. Ever since
her husband died, she’s been entrusted with the welfare
of her small duchy. Though she would truly welcome any
allies to her cause, she is not forthcoming with her trust.
Only a PC of cultured upbringing and courtly deport-
ment has a chance of scaling the walls she’s constructed
around her heart. Shalindra longs for a hero.

15. Branke’s Room (EL 3)

When the PCs finally get around to searching Branke’s
room, it’s important to remember that the halfling is a
skilled actor—he appears quite frightened by all of this
grisly murder business. Though he secretly acts to im-
pede the investigation in whatever way he can, he
otherwise plays the part of a halfling afraid for his life.
After all, the killer is still at large, right? It’s only right
that he be terrified. Branke claims to be a bard; appar-
ently he is a poet who travels around telling stories. He’s
weaving just such a tale in front of the fireplace on the
day the heroes arrive at the inn. After the murder, he is
skittish, and he has a habit of holding on to the pantleg
of the largest PC. Branke claims to have been composing
anew story at the time of the murder. He shows the PCs
a few pages of this unfinished tale, which is entitled,
“Arsinikus and the Dragon of Gale.” He asks if the PCs
would mind telling him a little of their adventures, so
that he could use their experiences as material for the
story.

Branke’s room is a mess, a fact for which he apologizes
profusely. He admits to being a disheveled soul, and he
can’t help the fact that he strews his belongings about
with little care for where they fall. Actually, the clutter
helps him conceal his important possessions. Sifting
through all the clothes, trinkets, toys, and traveling gear
requires a Search check (DC 13), with success indicat-
ing that the searcher has found what appears to be a
hand-carved whalebone flute. Ifsomeone attempts to air
a tune on the instrument, nothing happens, as the flute
is stuffed with a tightly rolled scroll. The scroll contains
extensive notes, written in Branke’s squiggly penman-
ship, detailing Yugin Vooshae’s orders to acquire the
Star on behalf of Sivian Ulphar of the Hawkmoon
thieves’ guild.

Branke hid a few more objects within one of the
bedposts, discovered on a Search check (DC 12). After
hollowing out the post, he filled it with his lockpicks, a
small sack of 4 pearls (20 gp each), and two bottles, one
of which is empty. The other bottle contains a potion of
enlarge (caster level 5), and is labeled as such. Branke has
used potions like these throughout his career to make up
for the disadvantages of his small stature.

Creature: If Branke is present when the PCs find the
items in the flute and bedpost, he holds his ground and

16
