ALAMENTATI

doesn’t involve his religion. His only other interest lies
in the equestrian arts.

21. Laranger’s Room

Laranger is the second of Leopold’s two disciples. He
is older than Sareth, and somewhat wiser. Though he
firmly believes that Toomba has something to do with
Yugin’s death, he isn’t as vehement in his argument.
Interestingly enough, Laranger lost the use of his right
arm in a climbing accident when he was young. He was
here in his room, losing at cards to Sareth, when Yugin
was killed.

Laranger, Male Human Clr3: CR 3; SZ M (6 ft., 0 in.
tall); HD 3d8+6; hp 30; Init +6 (Dex, Improved Initia-
tive); Spd 30 ft.; AC 12 (+2 Dex); BAB/Grap +2/+4;
Atk +6 melee (1d6+4, +2 light mace); Full Atk +6 melee
(1d6+4, +2 light mace); AL NG; SV Fort +5, Ref +3, Will
+6; Str 15, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 15.

Skills: Concentration +8, Craft (calligraphy) +2, Heal
+5, Listen +4, Profession (bookkeeper) +5, Spellcraft
+4, Spot +3. Feats: Dodge, Heighten Spell, Improved
Initiative.

Divine Spells Prepared (4/3/2; save DC 13 + spell level):
O—create water (x2), light, virtue; 1st—bless water, com-
mand, magic weapon; 2nd— speak with animals.

Domain Spells (Magic, Strength): 1st-endure elements;
2nd-identify.

Possessions: 3 sapphires (20 gp each), +2 light mace,
holy items.

Personality: Though a follower of Quooembla, Laranger
has tempered his faith with a veteran’s wisdom; he
doesn’t force his theology down anyone’s throat, and
he’s quite willing to discuss alternate religions with
those who believe in them. He sees Sareth as a narrow-
minded youth, and Leopold as an over-ambitious
blowhard.

22. Tower Level Two

The spiral staircase leads to a landing that Eron uses
much like an attic; he stores old papers here, receipts,
and other records. The room is covered in dust. There is
a heavy stone door here (Hardness 8; hp 35; Break [DC
30]) leading to what was once a wizard’s library. The
door is locked (Open Lock check [DC 18] to open), and
only Eron has the key. The staircase continues up to
Area 26, and down to Area 7.

The PCs must bring their own light source to pierce
the darkness in the library. The newest of the books here
is at least 200 years old, and most are written in an
outdated form of Common that a modern reader can’t
always comprehend (Intelligence check [DC 18] to
understand any particular passage). The books include
several dozen volumes of history and geography. Be
prepared to present the players with a brief summary of
the history of your campaign world and its physical
features. Likewise, for the volumes on theology and the
biographies of important figures from the past. One
volume is an account of the life of a poet-rogue named
Navarro, whose name crops up again in Chapter Two.

ON OF THIEVES

If you don’t want to unbalance your game by letting
your players come across a hoard of spellbooks, then
assume that Eron has removed these and sold them for a
nice profit. Otherwise this room contains all manners of
magical tomes, as well as books concerning the art and
practice of summoning beings from other realms. In.
particular, one set of texts deals with the properties of
light, and they include several “light-like” spells, rang-
ing from dancing lights to prismatic sphere.

The PCs glean several important facts by perusing
these books. The tower was built at some indeterminate
time in the distant past. The wizard who most recently
occupied the tower was named Azikeznon. The tower
was overrun with monstrous vermin when Azikeznon
came upon it some 200 years ago. The wizard rid the
tower of these beasts and made it his home. He was
fascinated with light and how it could be manipulated by
magic toa variety of effects. Most importantly, Azikeznon
theorized that light was the basis of most common life
forms. He hoped to construct a machine that could
harness the power of light. To this end, he spent his
tenure here in the tower summoning extraplanar beings
in hopes that they could provide him with the knowl-
edge he sought. One of them directed him to a material
known as nullium, a piece of protomatter that was one
of many building blocks used during Creation. The
books fully explain the nature of nullium. Refer to Area
1 for more information on this rare element. Azikeznon’s
notes confirm his receipt of a sample of nullium. It’s up
to the PCs to make the connection between nullium and
the Star.

23. Martial Arts Training

This room is empty save for a bundle of mats rolled
against the far wall. These are training mats for use
during sparring sessions. The PCs might spend a lot of
time here if they opt to study under the tutelage of Lady
Zan. For more details, see Martial Arts Forms in the
Appendix.

24. Eronand Lady Zan’s Quarters

This room is the grand apartment of the inn’s owners.
The walls are freshly painted, the paneling of rich
imported wood, and the framed art and crystal vases are
testaments to the inn’s success. Feel free to stock this
room with any kind of wonders you see fit, as Eron and
Lady Zan were both accomplished adventurers before
they became innkeepers. They happily permit the PCs
to search this room during the course of the investiga-
tion, though they keep a sharp eye on their possessions;
after all, the Domain is a haven of thieves, and one can
never be too careful. The art pieces are very valuable (at
least 200 gp each).

If the PCs ask Eron and Lady Zan to account for
themselves at the time of the murder, neither takes
offense to the question, understanding that the heroes
are only doing their job. Eron says he was asleep. Lady
Zan says she had gone onto the roof and slipped into a
fugue of deep and refreshing meditation.

19

 
