 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

A ladder in the back of the closet leads to the roof.
Lady Zan often uses the roof asa place to seek the silence
of her soul.

25. Privacy Chamber

Groups may rent this comfortable room when they
seek to conduct meetings in an area secure from spies
and magical eavesdropping. The fee is 5 gp per night. If
the PCs think to ask Eron or Lady Zan, they learn that
the room was indeed rented out at the time of the murder
(Shalindra paid for the room, but that doesn’t necessar-
ily mean she actually set foot in it; perhaps she rented it
just to provide herself with an alibi). The entire room is
protected by a permanent magical field that blocks
scrying and prohibits sound from leaving, thus also
warding against mundane eavesdroppers. Shalindra and
Rathen were sealing a business pact in this room at the
time of the murder. Evidence to this fact is found under
one of the leather chairs on a successful Search check
(DC 12). The searcher discovers an elaborate earring
made of onyx and platinum (50 gp). Observant PCs
remember Shalindra was wearing only one earring the
last time they saw her.

26. Tower Level Three

The wizard Azikeznon used this room as his summon-
ing chamber. The floor is adorned with a conjuring
circle, the walls painted with runes of protection and
containment. Though it is likely that Eron has removed
any magic items that Azikeznon left behind, the PCs
could, at your option, discover a few unusual items here.

The staircase descends to Area 22. A ladder accesses
Area 27.

27. Tower Level Four

The highest room of the tower is made almost entirely
of windows. Dominating the room is a strange and
elaborate mechanical contraption, a vastly complex
assembly of wheels and tubes, with eight large lenses
facing the eight windows. The design of this fantastic
gearwork monstrosity is beyond the PCs’ ken, but an
Intelligence check [DC 18] permits them to discover a
repository in the center of the device. This repository
has an interior that is roughly spherical, as if it might be
the womb for a globe-shaped item.

With the guidance of entities not of this world,
Azikeznon constructed this apparatus shortly before he
died. When activated, the machine fires a ray of in-
tensely bright light through one of its eight lenses. In
effect, the tower is a lighthouse. After the Star is placed
in the repository, the machine may be engaged (Use
Magic Device check [DC 18]). Once its gears are run-
ning, the tubes flush with liquid, and the machine is
capable of accepting practically any light-based spell.
The spell is cast into the machine itself. The nullium
sucks the spell into the repository, breaking it down into
its most basic elements. However, before the Star fully
absorbs these elements, certain pieces of the machine
intercept them, reorganize and amplify them, then fire

them out through the lens and the window to a point up
to 5 miles away. Essentially, any arcane spell that you
deem to have light as its basis (such as color spray or
hypnotic pattern), may be cast into the machine and have
its range greatly enhanced. The exact area of the spell’s
effect is up to you; it can affect whatever radius you deem
appropriate, and its power may be enchanted ina similar
fashion.

Concluding the Adventure

Give the PCs approximately half a game day to find
the killer. Awakened at dawn by the screams, they have
12 hours before their window of opportunity closes. If
they fail to learn the killer’s identity by late that after-
noon, you have several options for ending the adventure.
If they accuse the wrong person, that NPC is taken into
custody by a band of Trunchers and hauled off to stand
trial; Branke gets away clean. Optionally, Lady Zan tires
of the heroes’ bumbling and takes matters into her own
hands, in which case she too ends up dead or incapaci-
tated. Finally, Branke might simply slip away from the
inn unnoticed, with or without the Star.

If the PCs name Branke as the murderer and success-
fully subdue him, everyone at the inn breathes a collective
sigh of relief. Eron and Lady Zan award the heroes with
free rooms and meals for as long as they like (within
reason). That night, a party is held in the taproom in
honor of the PCs’ accomplishment. If he survived the
ordeal, Branke is handed off to a group of Trunchers and
taken away for trial. The heroes later hear that he
receives a life sentence to the penal ship Pariah. They
encounter him there later, should you play through the
events in Chapter Three. If Branke escapes, he becomes
a recurring villain, to be used as you see fit. Regardless,
the heroes receive a fond welcome whenever they return
to Darkstar Hall. Award each PC a bonus of 200 XP if
Branke is arrested, and 100 XP if Branke is accused but
manages to slip away.

Continuing the Adventure

If the secret of nullium is revealed to the world at
large, many of the Domain’s powerful personages make
a play to obtain it. Wealthy merchants, esteemed sages,
and of course greedy thieves plot to secure the Star,
either by hiring mercenaries or coming after it on their
own. If Eron manages to keep the Star safe, the various
belligerents attempt to locate samples elsewhere, in-
cluding the Outer Planes. The PCs might be employed
to protect the Star, or they might be hired to steal it, or
to track down a suspected nullium deposit in the dread-
ful Forlorn Mountains. There is much adventure to be
had and coin to be earned when the great nullium rush
begins!

Another option for future quests could involve
Shalindra and Rathen’s attempt to secure a trade agree-
ment, bringing them into direct conflict with Sivian
Ulphar’s organization. The PCs could work for or against
either side of the issue.

20
