ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

Sculpting Fate

This adventure, designed for four PCs of 3rd level, takes place
anywhere in the Domain you desire. Youcan insert itat any time
in the campaign. Even though the action deals indirectly with
the museum curator Elias Fellspar, the heroes never encounter
him personally, so the adventure is still viable even if you've
already played “The Soul of Vengeance,” in which case Fellspar
might very well bedead. Ifthat’s the case, his position as museum
owner now belongs to someone else, and the events described
here unfold virtually unchanged.

Adventure Background

Ashas been discussed, bandits roam the countryside through-
out much of the Domain. One such group of brigands, led by the
famous outlaw Sussun Li’argo, fell upon a common merchant
convoy only an hour before the PCs arrive on the scene. Li’argo
and his band killed five men, including three traders and two
hired guards, and then carried off the wife and daughter of the
caravan’s leader. The leader of the caravan, a man named
Rithero, was gravely wounded. Thinking him dead, the bandits
rode off, carrying anything they thought they could use or sell.
Liargo led his minions to a cave he recently discovered, only to
find the cave occupied—the creature inside attacked the ban-
dits, killed several, and made captives of the rest.

Adventure Synopsis

The PCs come upon the wrecked caravan and
find Rithero on death's door. If they apply their
healingartsto him, Rithero isgrateful. Buteven ifhe
dies in their arms, the trader lingers just long enough
to tell what he knows: the despicable Sussun Li’argo
was responsible forthe ambush. Compelled by either
altruism or the promise ofa reward, the PCs seek out
the bandits, but along the way they encounter a
mysterious soothsayer who reads their future. The
outcome of this fortune-telling actually determines
the type of creature that awaits them in Li’argo’s
cave. The PCs find the cave, dispatch the creature,
rescue Rithero’s family, and return the stolen goods.
Depending on the difficulty of the final encounter,
Sussun Li’argo may ally himself with the heroes in
hopes that, by doing so, the PCs let him go free.

OntheRoad

When the PCs are traveling, read the following
when they crest the next hill.

A ruin lies at the base of the hill. Smoke roils
from what appears to be a jumble of over-
turned carts and wagons. The bodies of men
and horses lie scattered about the road, along
with the pillaged remains of the goods this
caravan once carried. Even as you watch, the
first flurry of crows descends upon the car-
nage and begins picking through the bodies.

A successful Spot check (DC 15) reveals what
seems to bea moving human figure in the middle
of the wreckage. This is Rithero. The heroes are

3d20 yards away, and Rithero dies in 1d4 rounds unless
given medical treatment.

Rithero, Male Human Com3: CR 2; SZM (5 t., 10 in. tall);
HD 3d4; hp 9 (currently 0); Init +6 (Dex, Improved Initiative);
Spd 30 ft, AC 12 (+2 Dex); BAB/Grap +1/+3; Atk +3 melee
(1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed); Full Atk +3 melee (1d3+2 non-
lethal, unarmed); AL NG; SV Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +3; Str 15,
Dex 14, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 14, Cha 13.

Skills: Climb +8, Handle Animal +10, Knowledge (trade
routes) +6, Listen +8, Spot +8, Use Rope +11. Feats: Improved
Initiative, Skill Focus (Handle Animal), Skill Focus (Use Rope).

What Rithero Knows: If the heroes are unable to heal
Rithero, he holds on long enough to relate the gist of his
melancholy tale. If fully revived, Rithero curses the out-
laws and sets off after them on foot, with or without the
PCs’ help. Rithero says he was paid to deliver a load of
chandlery supplies (blocks of wax, wicks, et cetera), along
with a small crate of expensive sculptor’s tools. He and his
small convoy were en route to the city of Hawkmoon when
bandits beset them upon. Rithero recognized the bandit
leader as none other than Sussun Li’argo, notorious high-
wayman. The bounty on Li’argo currently stands at 400 gp,
payable at the constabulary headquarters in Hawkmoon
Rithero beseeches the PCs for aid. If they refuse, he sets off
alone in search of Li’argo and is never seen again. Later the
PCs hear that his body was found on the road. If instead
they agree to assist Rithero in rescuing his wife and

  

 

 
