 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

daughter, a successful Survival check (DC 15) indicates
the hoofprints of the fleeing outlaws. A PC with the Track
feat may follow these trail signs away from the road and
into the sweeping grasslands.

Sussun Largo and his band of cutthroats can be anywhere on
the map you desire; the PCs’ quest could take anywhere from
hourstodays, in any type of terrain. Itissuggested that the heroes
encounter the Seeker after a hard ride (or walk) of at least 648
miles (3d8 on a successful Survival check (DC 12), as they find
the swiftest route possible). For every five miles traveled, roll
1d12 and refer to the Wandering Monsters listed in the previous
chapter to check for chance encounters. The PCs should make
several Survival checks to keep on the right trail. Feel free to
harry them with strong winds, rains, and other natural impedi-
ments. Regardless of the route they take, theirhuntshould prove
an arduous one.

TheSeeker

Atsome point during their charging pursuit of Li’argo’s band,
the PCs come across strange sight: a wild-eyed, unwashed man
is apparently milking a goat. The goat is black, with gleaming,
ivory like horns. It wears a silver bell around its neck, and it’s
pleasantly chewing grass whilethe man hunkersdown and works
it for milk, which he directs into a battered wooden bucket.

This odd scene is no mirage. It is, in fact, precisely what it
appears to be. Far from any civilized town, a dirty traveler has
stopped to milk his goat. This man
calls himself the Seeker, as he long
agoforgot hisreal name. Vacillating
between protracted periods of mo-
ronic babble and fleeting moments
of startling intelligence, the Seeker
is something of a prophet. Indeed,
he has been touched by the gods,
made to walk the world as an infre-
quent seer. Most of the time he
speaks onlynonsense; hisstated goal
in life is to find a greener pasture in
which his goat might enjoy finer
grass. But the cloud of his dementia
is sometimes pierced with random
lightning bolts of clairvoyant in-
sight. The Seeker experiences just
such an epiphany shortly after the
PCs arrive.

Play the Seeker like a deranged
oldman during the first few minutes
of his conversation with the PCs.
Heanswers questions with senseless
answers, he lapses into muttered
monologues, he rants, weeps, and
shakes his grimy fists at the sky. The
heroes learn only that his goat is
named Quinby. The goat, though it
may appear to be special, is quite
mundane. The Seeker offers noth-
ing useful whatsoever in way of
information. He pokes the largest
PC warrior in the chest, tries to

 

fondle a wizard’s wands, scolds obvious rogues for their deviant
behavior, and harangues clerics for following false gods. In every
way he is a nuisance and a boor. Just when the PCs are about to
ride off in frustration, the Seeker asks them in a reasonable,
respectful voice to haveaseatand heed hiscounsel. Suddenly the
fog clears from his eyes. He beams with a new and frightening
sense of purpose, as if his next words might very well alter the
trajectory of human history.

Deciding Destiny: The Seeker invites the heroes to sit and
lend an ear. He then commences to clearing away a patch of
grass, exposing the bare earth beneath, talking all the while
aboutthe ficklehand of fate and how he feelsits touch at the most
unexpected times. Meanwhile, make asecret Wisdom check for
each of the PCs. The hero who generates the highest roll on this
check becomes the object of the Seeker's divinatory magic.
Optionally, you may pick any PC you like, or roll for a random
selection. The old man points at this PC, rattles off several
curiousaphorisms, and declares that this person should nowstate
‘one simple question he or she would like to have answered
concerning events of the near future. Refer to the divine spell
divination for rules on adjudicating the Seeker's power. Once the
question is stated, the Seeker casts a handful of rune-engraved
rocks onto the patch of earth. After several seconds of quiet
study, he provides the PC with an answer appropriate to
divination. This is the perfect chance for you to introduce a vital
piece of information concerningevents in your campaign world.

 

 

Sculpting Fate

 
