ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

Once this first bit of prophesying is complete, the Seeker turns
all five stones facedown and asks a second individual to picture
in his mind the object of his current quest. As soon as the PC
confirms that he is visualizing Sussun Li’argo, Rithero’s family,
or the stolen supplies, the Seeker instructs him to select one of
the stones. These stones are depicted as a Player’s Handout, and
should be cut out or photocopied for use in the soothsaying. The
image on the stone decides what foe the PCs meet in the
upcoming encounter. Spread the “stones” face-down on the
gaming table and have the player select one, then refer to the
following table:

Spider: “Avoid the webs of danger.” The creature in Li’argo’s
cave is an aranea.

Web: “Beware ensnarement from the darkness.” The creature
in Li’argo’s cave is an ettercap.

Wing: “The song of the sky shall tempt you.” The creature in
Lifargo’s cave is a harpy.

Horn: “The hoof shall trample and the horn impale.” The
creature in Li’argo’s cave is a minotaur.

Fang: “Infernal servants beset you.” The creature in Li’argo’s
cave is a quasit.

The Seeker relates the information in quotation marks,
above. He does not know what type of creature guards the cave;
that information is for you alone. Once the reading is complete,
the Seeker begins to ramble incoherently, talking more to his
goat than anyone else. Nothing the PCs can do short of casting
wish or miracle can restore the Seeker to his senses; he is an
instrumentofhigher powers, and best left to hisown inexplicable
destiny.

Armed with the Seeker's insights, the heroes set off in search
of Li’argo’s cave, using periodic Survival checks to find their way.
Again, the trip may be as long as you desire, placed within any
type of terrain. Use the Wandering Monster table as necessary.
When the PCs finally come upon the hideout, refer to the map
entitled “Sculpting Fate.”

1. The Bloodbath(EL 4)

Obviously a battle was very recently fought in this low-
ceilinged cavern. Two or three human corpses are strewn about
in varying degrees of dismemberment. It’s up to you to tailor the
description of the carnage according to the type of creature that
dwells here. For example, if the Seeker's augury indicated an
aranea, then the corpses are covered in sticky webs. If, however,
a harpy is the chosen foe, the bodies bear claw and teeth marks.

‘When the PCs arrive, the creature is moments away from
slaying Sussun Li’argo, who is tied toa wooden pole in the middle
of the cave. The creature attacks the heroes immediately, and
Li’argo calls out for them to cut him loose, promising toaid them
in their efforts to kill the monster. Li’argo remains true to his
word, doing what he can to defeat the creature, but making a
desperate run for freedom as soon as the battle is over. He
attempts to mount one of the PCs’ horses and head off into the
hills. He fights if they pursue him, but surrenders if he falls to 4
hit points or less.

Sussun Li’argo, Male Human Rog4: CR 4; SZ M (6ft., 2 in.
tall); HD 4d6+4; hp 19; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; AC 11 (+1 Dex);
BAB/Grap +3/+2; Atk +2 melee; Full Atk +2 melee; SA sneak
attack (+2d6); SQ evasion, trapfinding, trapsense (+1), un-

 

canny dodge; AL NE; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +4; Str 9, Dex
13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 4.

Skills: Appraise +7, Balance +7, Climb +5, Gather Informa-
tion +4, Intimidate +2, Listen +3, Move Silently +5, Sleight of
Hand +8, Spot +1, Swim +3, Tumble +7, Use Magic Device +3,
UseRope +6.Feats: Iron Will, Run, Weapon Focus (momingstar).

Aranea: CR 4; hp 19; see the MM.

Ettercap: CR 4; hp 27; see the MM.

Harpy: CR 4; hp 31; see the MM.

Minotaur: CR 4; hp 39; see the MM.

Quasit: CR 3; hp 22; see the MM.

2. TheLair

The creature sleeps here. The cave stinks and is strewn with
refuse appropriate to the creature’s type.

‘Treasure: 2,080sp in burlap sacks and three wooden crates of
sculptor’s tools (each crate weighs 40 Ibs.); furthermore, search-
ing through the mess (Search check [DC 15]) reveals a wand of
cure light wounds (5 charges), and Li’argo’s +2 momingstar.

3. The Prisoners

Rithero’s wife and daughter are tied up in the room, soon to
be meals or playthings for the creature. Their names are Miskia
and Velendria, respectively. Consider their statistics to be those
of Ist-level commoners. They are quite scared, but more:ot less
in good health.

Concluding the Adventure

The PCs’ primary goal is to rescue Rithero’s family. This is
worth an additional 100 XP each. Secondly, they should see to
the return of the stolen sculpting equipment (50 XP each).
Rithero and his family are eternally grateful, though they can
offer little in the way of monetary compensation. However,
Rithero becomes a solid contact, to be used in the future as you
see fit. Ifthe heroes capture Sussun Li’argo and present him to
the proper authorities at Hawkmoon, they receive a reward of
400 gp for their efforts (75 XP each). They also have the chance
to meet Elias Fellspar, if they see that his supplies are safely
delivered. Fellspar thanks them for their efforts on his behalf
and gives them each a free pass to view the museum exhibits.
Refer to Chapter Three for more information on Fellspar and
his diabolical museum.

Continuing the Ad

IfSussun Li’argoescapes, heretums|aterin theherdes' careers,
either to rob them or to ally himself with them, depending on
how they treated him. Ifhe isincarcerated, he eventually escapes
and confronts the PCs; again, his attitude depends upon the
circumstances of his capture. Ifthe PCs deliverthe tools safely to
Elias Fellspar’sdoorstep, the old museum curatorcallsupon them
later for other small but dangerous jobs, such as guarding
caravans and collecting rare curios for his House of Wax. This
gives them a chance to get to know Fellspar, so that they are
entirely comfortable with him by the time they are high enough
level to face the challenges found in Chapter Three.

23

 
