 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

AScentof Evil

Though this scenario takes place in the city of
Swordport, you may relocate it to any city in the
Domain. It is best suited for four PCs of 4th level.

Adventure Background

A deadly stew is brewing under the city of
Swordport. Winding beneath the city streets
is the town’s antiquated sewer system, and
occupying a certain corner of these muck-
encrusted avenues is a human priest named
Oojisho. Driven to near madness by dreams of
toxicological mayhem, Oojisho is preparing
to unleash a catastrophe upon the unsuspect-
ing citizenry above. Oojisho is a member of a
clandestine organization known as the Murk
Traders. As an elite priest of the ooze-demon
Juiblex, Oojisho is using his talents to spear-
head the Murk Traders’ latest plot: the
befouling of the Swordport water supply and
the eventual release of a plague agent on the
coast.

Their noses lead the heroes into this scheme
quite literally. A passerby smells something
putrid coming from a clogged sewer drain,
most likely the remnants of a wererat nest
recently cleared out by the city militia. Prob-
ing the cistern system, the PCs encounter an
alarming number of oozes, mosses, and jellies,
and perhaps fall prey to a gelatinous cube
which Oojisho keeps as a pet at the bottom of
a septic reservoir. If they investigate too
closely, Oojisho begins to fear discovery and
promptly attacks.

Swordport (large town): Conventional; AL
LN; 3,000-gp limit; Assets 427,000 gp; Popula-
tion 3,855; Mixed (human 85%, dwarf 9%,
gnome 2%, halfling 1%, elf 1%, half-elf 1%, half-orc 1%).

Authority Figures: Oro Gulina, male dwarf Rng? (head of
the town oligarchy).

Important Characters: Vindis Nelgaunt, male human
Rog10 (Sivian Ulphar’s agent, posing as the dockmaster),
Gabriel the Unbending, male human Ftr7 (captain of the
guard), Lady Janil, female half-elf Rog4 (guildmistress of
brothels)

Others: Town guards, War2 (x 50); Com1 (x 3,801).

Notes: Swordport isa rollicking coastal city, the gateway
to the Moonsilver Sea. It is the second most important
urban area in the Domain, a natural rival to Hawkmoon.
Intrigue between the two cities is rich.

Character Hooks

Several methods exist for embroiling the player characters in
ojisho’s machinations, depending on the nature of the campaign:
© One of the PCs smells something unnatural emanating

from a nearby sewer grate. This is the easiest means of

inserting the heroes into the adventure. A little legwork

 

on their part uncovers news of a wererat nest recently
cleaned out by the Trunchers. By the smell of things
down there, the exterminators may have missed a rat or

two.
The heroes are entreated by a local merchant to solve
the riddle of a mysterious scent lingering behind his
shop and driving away his patrons. He relates the story
of the wererat infestation, and warns the PCs to proceed
into the depths with caution. He’s willing to pay each
character 50 gp if they can prevent his customers from
avoiding him on account of the stench.

-# A local sage has found evidence of possible water con-
tamination and either hires or begs the heroes to
investigate. He requires a large water sample from a
certain cistern.

Keyed Locations

1. Sewer Entrance

Other than Oojisho’s private quarters (Area 7), there
are no sources of illumination in any of the sewer cham-

24
