ALAMENTATI

bers. The heroes must provide their own light. When
they reach the bottom of the ladder, read or paraphrase
the following:

The walls of this sewage tunnel are lined in aging,
ee onenmedicce: The air isheavy with moisture,
and the sound of dripping water echoes down the
~ passages that lead both east and west. The ceiling isa
te feet high. The stones which comprise the
floor are slippery, and footing is made even more
- dangerous by a shallow stream of wastewater which
: -gurgles down the. center of the hall, running from east
_ towest and giving off terrible stink. A few feet down
the eastern corridor, a wooden lever is mounted

halfway up the wall.

   
 

 

 

The characters stand in a secondary runoff tunnel of
the city’s main sewer network. When water reaches a
certain level in the pipes, the overflow passes through
the bars (Area 3) and runs down the passage to the
cistern (Area 4). This allows excess waste to collect in
the cistern, preventing clogged pipes and eventual
flooding. The smell of feces is so powerful here that
anyone who spends more than 10 minutes exploring
must make a Constitution check (DC 15) to keep from
becoming nauseous (-2 to all attack rolls and ability
checks until the character breathes fresh air for a full
hour).

Characters with the ability to detect sliding walls
and/or changes in elevation note the slight gradation
in the angle of the floor. This angle becomes more
pronounced as the heroes near Areas 2 and 3.

The lever on the wall serves two purposes. Pulling
the lever causes a stone barrier to slide across the grate
at Area 3, stopping the flow of water; engaging the
barrier is necessary if the heroes are to investigate the
trapdoor in the bottom of the cistern (see Area 4).
Additionally, Oojisho has rigged the lever to a gong
hidden in a hollow space in the wall. Anyone pulling
the lever sounds the gong and alerts Oojisho to their
presence. The Murk Trader promptly prepares an ap-
propriate greeting for the heroes. The gong’s activation
device can be detected with a successful Search check
(DC 25) and disarmed with a successful Disable De-
vice attempt (DC 20).

2. Sloping Passage

It doesn’t take a dwarf to tell that this part of the
hallway definitely slants downward. The stone floor is
slippery enough to force a Dexterity check (DC 15)
from anyone who tries to navigate it normally; anyone
who fails to approach this area with caution must make
an immediate check or go sliding headlong into the
cistern at Area 4.

3. Sewer Runoff

Aset of rusty bars separates this area from Swordport’s
main sewer pipes. Unless the heroes engage the stone-
work barrier, a shallow stream of water pours over the rim
of the channel on the far side of the bars, running toward

ON OF THIEVES

the cistern at Area 4. The bars (Hardness 10, hp 30)
themselves are secured to the wall by an ancient padlock
(Hardness 10, hp 5) that has long since rusted into
impregnability; it cannot be picked. Beyond them lies
the labyrinthine expanse of the city’s sewer network, a
rat’s nest of crisscrossing passageways and unpredictable
switchbacks. Detail this area as necessary.

4. Cistern (EL 6)

The transparent nature of the gelatinous cube which
lairs here renders it effectively invisible to anyone
looking down into this limestone shaft from above
(Spot check [DC 18] to notice the cube). If the gate at
Area 2 remains open, water drains into the shaft and
trickles down the sides within inches of the gelatinous
cube, collecting on the bottom of the cistern. The
murky water maintains a depth of about six inches at
the cistern’s bottom due to a series of tiny drainage
holes. The water is black enough to conceal the trap-
door in the center of the floor. The PCs can only find
the door by physically searching the floor beneath the
gunk—not a pleasant prospect, considering the uni-
dentifiable chunks floating in this fetid stew—or by
throwing the lever at Area | and arresting the water
flow, consequently revealing the door. Climbing down
the slippery walls is a tricky proposition (Climb check
[DC 18]).

Creature: The gelatinous cube all but fills the final
10 feet of the cistern, its bulk pressed against the sides
of the pit. A small open space underneath the creature
allows the sewage to collect, concealing the trapdoor.
Anyone sliding into the cistern from Area 2 plunges
down 25 feet, landing squarely atop the gelatinous
cube. The fall inflicts 1d6 points of damage, and the
character is considered engulfed (see below). The
difficulties of battling the cube are exacerbated by the
fact that at least one of the PCs may be standing on top
of it. Anyone who climbs down the shaft unaware of
the monster's presence may find themselves engulfed.
Sounds of combat in the cistern are sure to rouse
Oojisho’s attention. The cube cannot climb out of the
cistern.

Gelatinous Cube: CR 3; hp 54; see the MM.

Once the gelatinous cube has been dispatched, the
heroes may probe the floor beneath the muck. A
successful Search check (DC 12) reveals the trapdoor.
Opening the trapdoor exposes the ghouls lying below.

Creature: Below the trapdoor is the source of the
virulent smell which pervades the city streets above.
Four mutilated corpses have been stuffed down here,
the leftovers of Oojisho’s experiments in toxicology.
The Murk Trader has harvested various tissue samples
from these moldering bodies, using them to test the
efficacy of his plague agent. The unholy circumstances
surrounding the deaths of these former citizens of
Swordport corrupted the normal process of spiritual
transfiguration. Since the time of their deaths, these
four bodies have siphoned enough dark power from the
Lower Planes to become ghouls. Remember that the
PCs may be caught flat-footed by the ghouls when they

25

 
