 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

pull open the trapdoor. The stomach-twisting smell of
the ghouls’ decayed bodies is so intense that anyone
within 10 feet must make a Constitution check (DC
15) to avoid suffering a 2 penalty on all attack rolls
and ability checks. The nausea wears off after the
character breathes fresh air for at least five full rounds.

Ghouls (4): CR 1; hp 14 each; see the MM.

Possessions: Though Oojisho stripped his victims of
their belongings before depositing them here, he over-
looked a silver locket bearing the inscription, “To my
beloved Marsten. Wear this pendant and it shall
keep you safe.” The locket is worth 150 gp. See
Continuing the Adventure for more informa-
tion on the locket.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

$5. Winding Passage

This narrow passage descends 10 feet be-
fore reaching the entrance to Oojisho’s
chamber. Water drips from hairline cracks ,
in the ceiling and runs in murky rivulets
along the floor.

6. Hidden Entrance (EL 2)

The only visible door in this area is
false, opening onto a stone wall. Anyone
who opens this door activates a gas trap.
A successful Search check (DC 20) re-
veals the secret door which leads to
Oojisho’s personal chamber.

Trap: Oojisho’s experiments into bio-
logical contaminants led tothe invention
of an organic nerve gas that he has loaded
into a special sac and hidden in the wall.
Opening the false door causes the sac to
expel the foul purple gas, enveloping everyone
within five feet of the door. Failing the initial Forti-
tude save causes the temporary loss of 2d4 Constitution
points, which return at the rate of one point per hour.
Failing the second saving throw causes blindness as
the result of severe damage to the tender tissue of the
eyes. Blindness is permanent until magically healed.

Blindness Gas Trap: CR 3; magic device; location
trigger; no reset; spell effect (blindness, 5th-level wiz-
ard, DC 13 Fort avoids); multiple targets (all within
10-ft.); Search DC 27; Disable Device DC 27.

7. Secret Shrine (EL6)

 

 

This large, hexagonal room reeks of fungus and
decay. Four torches in denited iron sconcesreveal
what appears to be a combination of sleeping
chamber and work room. To the northwest is a
bed made of soiled rags. A laboratory table stands
to the southwest, while several large, sealed casks
stand opposite them in the northeast. A blood-
splattered altar dominates the center of the room.
The walls are covered in moss and slime.

 

26
