ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

Ifhe has been warned of the PCs’ arrival, Oojisho hides
under the pile of sleeping rags. He waits until one of the
heroes begins to investigate the rags, then launches a
surprise attack, trying to catch his prey flat-footed. Oojisho
is armed with a strange weapon of his own creation. Made
from a modified bellows, the weapon is filled with fluid
which is sprayed through a nozzle at the target by squeezing
the dual handles. Oojisho has filled the weapon with a
living gray ooze.

Creatures: Oojisho uses his bellows for his initial at-
tack, then discards the weapon and resorts to spellcasting.
Once discharged from the bellows, the gray ooze attacks
normally.

Oojisho, Male Human Clr4 (Jubilex): CR 4; SZ M (6-
ft. 1-in. tall); HD 4d8+8; hp 26; Init +7 (Dex, Improved
Initiative); Spd 30 ft; AC 18 (+3 Dex, +5 chainmail);
BAB/Gra +3/+2; Atk +3 melee (1d6, quarterstaff) or +3
ranged (gray ooze, bellows, range 10 ft. up to 50 ft.); Full
Atk +3 melee (1d6, quarterstaff) or +3 ranged (gray ooze,
bellows, range 10 ft. up to 50ft.); SA bellows; SQ darkvision
(60ft.), disease immunity, poison immunity, rebuke undead,
spontaneous casting; AL CE; SV Fort +6, Ref +4, Will +5;
Str 9, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 17, Wis 13, Cha 7.

Skills: Concentration +9, Craft (alchemy) +6, Craft
(poison) +10, Heal +7, Knowledge (toxicology) +7, Listen
+0, Spellcraft +10, Spot +0. Feats: Exotic Weapon Profi-
ciency (bellows), Great Fortitude, Improved Initiative.

SA: First attack uses bellows filled with gray ooze (see
below).

SQ: As a follower of Juiblex, Oojisho has been granted
darkvision, as well as full immunity toall natural poisons and
diseases.

Divine Spells Prepared (5/3/2; save DC 11 + spell level) : O—
detect magic, guidance, cure minor wounds (x2), resistance;
1st—cause fear, doom, protection from law; 2nd—darkness,
silence.

Domain Spells (special - extradomain abilities included above) :
Ist-obscuring mist; 2nd-fog cloud.

Possessions: green and black chain mail armor, bel-
lows, quarterstaff, bloodstone ring (75 gp), pouch
containing 25 gp.

Gray Ooze: CR 4; hp 29; see the MM.

Treasure: The PCs may investigate the room after
dealing with Oojisho. Hidden in the sleeping rags is a
single piece of unworked alexandrite (300 gp), discovered
on a successful Search check (DC 15). The worktable is
cluttered with bottles, beakers, and other such equipment,
valued at 200 gp if sold to an alchemist. One of the vials
contains a dose of black adder venom, while a tightly
sealed glass dish holds two doses of malyss root paste. Refer
to the section on Poisons in the DMG for details of these
poisons. Also on the table are the raw ingredients for
brewing a variety of toxins; at the DM’s option, a PC with
the Heal skill has a 50% chance of finding any particular
herb here. On a successful Search check (DC 21), the
heroes discover a sliding panel in the side of the altar.
Hidden within the altar is the small cache that Oojisho has

accumulated: 400 gp, an alabaster statuette of Juiblex (150
gp), and a black-bladed dagger with a pommel cast in the
shape of a skull. This is actually a dagger of venom. The
Murk Trader’s journal is also here, in which he writes of his
experiments with human bodies and his plans to adulter-
ate the Swordport water supply. Optionally, the journal
contains specific information on the headquarters of the
Murk Traders, should the DM decide to continue this
storyline in the future.

Finally, unsealing one of the casks reveals 50 gallons of
contaminated drinking water. Oojisho has infected each
of these barrels with a plague agent that enters the body
through contact with the skin. Anyone touching the
befouled water must make a Fortitude save (DC 15) or
suffer severe chest cramps resulting in the loss of 2d4
Strength points. A second successful Fortitude save (DC
15) prevents an additional loss of 2d4 hit points. Anyone
drinking this water must make the same saving throws,
albeit at DC 20.

Continuing the Adventure

Ifthe PCs are successful in cleaning out the sewers, they
earn the gratitude of the city officials, forming alliances
that might pave the way for future employment on behalf
of Swordport. Additionally, Oojisho’s journal contains
vital information concerning the mysterious Murk Trad-
ers, an organization bent upon poisoning the world in
order to make it habitable for their fell deity, so that he
might one day swim up out of the infernal cesspool and
finally lay claim to the Domain of Hawkmoon. Optionally,
the book mentions the imprisonment of Juiblex’s avatar
within a distant mountain known as the Devil’s Finger.
Refer to the Necromancer Games module Chaos Rising for
more information on the Slime Lord’s current predica-
ment.

An interesting adventure could develop if the PCs
discovered the locket around the ghoul’s neck in Area 4.
In life, this man’s name was Marsten. He was the beloved
of a woman called Rayalia DeFae, who was said to be as
beautiful as the dawn. That was one year ago. Since the day
Marsten disappeared (he was assistant guildmaster of the
Sewermen’s Guild, killed one morning during a routine
inspection of the city drainage system), Rayalia has be-
come a recluse, locked away in her manor house. If the PCs
inspect the locket, they find inscribed upon it in tiny
letters the name of the craftsman who made it. If they track
down and question the craftsman, they learn that the
locket was custom made for a woman named DeFae.
Asking around leads the heroes to Rayalia’s dilapidated
home; though once renowned for her elegant lawn parties,
Rayalia no longer receives visitors. Though still shadowed
with grief, Rayalia is grateful for the PCs’ efforts and glad
to know at last what become of her lover. Over the course
of the next few weeks, she begins to draw from her malaise,
until she one day resumes her place in society. Aware each
PC a bonus of 300 XP.

27

 
