 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

Dark Sky Rising f

Best suited fora group of four imaginative PCs of 5th level,
this adventure offers the heroes a colorful, somewhat peril-
ous interlude between their other, more important missions.

    
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Adventure Background

Inthe arid parts of the Domain, where the dust
isa living beast to be engaged in daily battle and
the weather more dangerous than any dragon,
farming is an adventurer’s business. Only the
hardiest of souls have the stamina to stave off
the elementsand work the ground. The mining
town of Nathumbri is home to men and
women who hold a patch of fertile soil as
valuable as diamonds. Despite the can-
tankerous climate, there is stuff to
grown in the black soil, vegetables to be
raised by those with the fortitude to
turn the hard ground and sow their
hopeful seeds.

These doughty farmers provide sus-
tenance tothe town’s three hundred
residents, all of whom are supported J
insome fashion by the mining trade.
The region’s largest copper mine lies
ahalf-mile south of town, a crawling
labyrinth of treacherous tunnels
known as the Scorpion Pit. And
thanks tothe copper of the Pit, the
denizens of Nathumbri know a
good life, if not an easy one.
Their days are spent either
coughing the mine-dust from
their lungs and avoiding cave-
ins, or bending themselves over
a plow and cursing the waterless
sky.

The lodestone which pulls
the adventurers into the lives
of the people of Nathumbri
emanates from the rustic walls
of the’ Roughshod Inn. For
the skies have gone dry, threat-
ening to ruin the town, and a
rainmaker has arrived to shake
hisdowsingrodat the clouds.

The Heroes
Approach

As the PCs guide their
thirsty horses into town, they no-
tice the farmers struggling in their
fields, the casualties of their war all
around them: broken plowshares, ex-
hausted oxen, soil as dry as powdered bone.
None of the farmers is interested in talk-
ing. Nor are the miners on their way to

 

 

 
