ALAMENTATI

the shafts. Grubby and work-worn, the miners amble to the
Scorpion Pit believing themselves to be only days from ruin.
Nathumbri lies too far from the normal trade routes to
expect regular shipments of food, so if the farmers can’t
produce, then entire families starve. The mood at the ‘Shod
isno livelier. Seeing the welcome sight of adrinking-house,
the PCs most likely stop to wet their weary throats. Once
inside, they seeahomey place of dark wood and rich tobacco
smells, of ready hospitality and neighborly cheer. Yet even
this cheer is forced. The owners of the inn, Cadfry and
Lynhild, see the fate of the town written in the dust which
blows through the crack beneath their door. They greet the
PCs with the best smiles and beds they have to offer, but it
is evident their spirits are nearly broken. Everyone in town,
it seems, suffers from the same malaise.

Everyone Save Pelopidas Skye.

Pelopidas Skye—gnomish inventor, storyteller, sailor of
airships and keeper of dreams—has arrived in Nathumbri
only hours ahead of the PCs, his colorful buckboard bowed
with the weight of his wonderful balloon. After surveying
thesituation, Pelopidas immediately sets about his trade. He
unloads his wagon, and with the help of a special magic item
that reproduces a beholder’s biological levitation gas, he
inflates his fantastical bag. Cadfry and Lynhild stumble from
the ‘Shod to find the inflating balloon, rising lifelike from
the ground, swelling into the sky like a haphazard dream.
The canvas of the bag is a patchwork of color, inked with
imponderable languages and calligraphic threadwork.Once
the balloon is filled half an hour later—its gondola tugging
against the cables which hold it captive to the ground—
then Pelopidas announces his prospectus: in exchange for a
minimal sum, he ascends to the heavens and tremble the
clouds until they rain.

Nathumbri (village): Conventional; AL LG; 200-gp
limit; Assets 8,550 gp; Population 846; Mixed (human 68%,
dwarf 21%, gnome 7%, halfling 1%, elf 1%, half-elf 1%,
half-orc 1%).

Authority Figures: Ranger Lord Ordrin Ironboot, male
human Rng5.

ImportantCharacters: Zatmenye Detov, male human Com4
(merchant); Patia, female human Clr2 (Muir/healer); Cal-
listo, male War4 (watchman); Ohja, male dwarf War2
(junior watchman); Cadfry and Lynhild, male and female
human Exp5 (owners of the Roughshod Inn), Bruton, male
dwarf Exp 4 (owner of the Scorpion Pit mine).

Others: Town guards, Warl (x10); Com] (x828).

Up, Up, and Away... (EL7)

Pelopidas the gnome owns two magic items which make
his enterprise possible. The first of these is a bellows of
beholder gas, which manufactures an artificial form of the
very gas which beholders produce to propel themselves
above the ground. The second item is a large basket of silver
iodide dust, which Pelopidas himself created in his alchemi-
cal lab. When tossed into a suitable patch of clouds, the dust
produces rain in the area immediately below (refer to New
Magic Items in the Appendix for more information). Armed
with these two items, Pelopidas takes to the sky in front of

ON OF THIEVES

the gathered townsfolk, his balloon a fabulous banner
against the clouds.

Halfway up the trouble begins.

Creatures: Unknown to the citizens of Nathumbri, their
home is currently plagued by a nasty group of elemental air
vermin, also known as dusters. These dusters entered the
region from the Elemental Plane of Air through a vortex in
the form of a dust devil. Being both scavengers and cowards,
the dusters found the fare around the town plentiful and
easily acquired; they've since grown fat off the labor and fear
of the unsuspecting townsfolk. If allowed to remain, they'll
be the doom of Nathumbri.

Mephits, Dust (4): CR 3; hp 13 each; see the MM.

Normally solitary, the dusters of Nathumbri have banded
together for the good of the whole, having found themselves
removed from their natural habitat and now dependent
upon numbers for their continued survival. Aside from
tearing holes in the fabric of the balloon itself, the dusters’
most effective weapon is their personal zone of obscure-
ment, which they’ve learned to use in concert with one
another to the benefit of all.

By setting his balloon adrift in the clouds, Pelopidas
inadvertently intrudes upon the dusters’ domain. Occupy-
ing a desolate crag not far away, the dusters notice the
balloon’s ponderous advance and fall upon it most greedily.
They attack Pelopidas and his uncertain airship, hungry for
whatever he might have on board. Their first action is to
assault the airship with wind wall. From the ground, the PCs
can make out few details; suddenly it seems as if the balloon
is caught in a dusty gale, and Pelopidas begins flailing his
arms madly about and the balloon rushes back to earth at a
startling velocity.

Somehow Pelopidas manages to land without any undo
bodily harm, toppling from the gondola and shouting about
wind spirits. It takes a calm head and steady hand to console
him, but even then, the gnome refuses to put himself again
in harm’s way. The town, he says, has to trust its fate to the
gods.

Ofcourse, the city fathers are quite desperate, willing still
to pay 500 pieces of their favorite gold to anyone who can
sprinkle the magic dust upon the clouds. And if he’s asked,
Pelopidas can be persuaded to permit the PCs to take his
balloon into the sky... fora twenty percent cut of the profits.

Just Don’t Look Down

Operating a balloon (Hardness 2, hp 40) is not so easy as
it sounds. Accurate maneuvering of such a vehicle requires
an appropriate skill, such as Handle Balloon or Profession
(Balloon Handler). Barring this, any PC can successfully
turn, dive, or ascend in the balloon by making an untrained
skill check (DC 15), modified by Dexterity; the balloon is
guided by the deployment of five bags of ballast which hang
from the rim of the gondola, as well as by a line attached to
the top of the balloon, permitting gas to be released for rapid
course changes. The balloon moves vertically and horizon-
tally at a speed of 20, with poor maneuverability (clumsy),
and can be made to move any direction by tugging ropes
which in turn open apertures at the bottom of the ballast
bags, releasing sand and—at least in theory—altering the

29

 
