 

CHAPTER ONE: FOUR ROADS TO RICHES

Roughshod Inn

To Scorpion
ata italy

ae
Nathumbri

1 Inch = 25 Ft.

 

trajectory of the balloon. As soon as the PCs ascend to a
height of 500 feet, the pesky dusters cast wind wall at them.
and attack. They direct their sorties first against the PCs in
the gondola and then, if necessary, against the balloon
itself.
Keep in mind several factors when running balloon
versus duster combat:
¢ The dusters’ superior maneuverability provides them
with a +2 bonus to their initiative rolls.

The dusters prefer toswoop in, attack, and fly away before
their adversaries can react; this makes it difficult for the
PCs to estimate the exact number of enemies they face,
and could provide a challenge for even a powerful party.
They alternate between their breath weapon and blur in
order to keep the heroes guessing.

The dusters pull back if they lose more than half their hit
points, but only for a few rounds while their fast healing
ability regenerates their injuries. Then they fly back into
the fray.

When fighting from the balloon’s basket in the midst of
a hard wind, the PCs likely experience unusual combat
modifiers, such as penalties for fighting while precari-
ously balanced (—2), missile fire from a moving platform
(-2), and any other unique factors the DM deems appro-
priate. The positions which the adventurers put
themselves in during such a fray are impossible to predict,
and the DM should not dissuade them from even so
daring an act as climbing up onto the balloon itself, or

 

Ranger Ironboot

MayonmDetov

dangling from the ballast bags, or any other action of

dubious wisdom.

Make this experience a wild and memorable one for the
PCs, with perilous aerial acrobatics, dive-bombing
elementals, and all manners of precarious stunts, unex-
pected wind gusts, and clever enemy combat tactics. The
dusters tear holes in the undercarriage of the gondola, chew
through guy-wires, and generally make the party’s ride as
dangerous as possible. For every 4 hp of damage the dusters
deliver to the balloon itself, 50 feet of altitude is lost as more
precious gas escapes. The PCs might soon find themselves
taking a “crash” course in emergency balloon landing!

Concluding the Adventure

If the PCs are forced to land with a battered balloon while
the dusters still hold the sky, then the plaguing of Nathumbri
continues unchecked, until another means can be found to
deal with this unusual threat. Perhaps the adventurers estab-
lish some sort of ground defense, lying in wait for the next
duster invasion. On the other hand, if the dusters are killed or
flee the area, then the PCsare victorious and have secured the
future of Nathumbri. All that remains is to put the balloon
back in the sky, fertilize the clouds, and wait for the rain.
Handshakes and good ale are generously administered.

Pelopidas offers formal balloon lessons for any who desire
such training, and that night’s meals at the Roughshod Inn
are on the house. Whatever the outcome of the struggle, the
rainmaking adventurers are certain to be glad to once again
have the safety of the ground beneath them!
