Chapter Two:

Through the Crimson Caves

Best suited for four PCs of 9th level, this storyline
involves an extended wilderness exploration. The action
takes place in an area of mountain-enclosed hinterlands
called the Frostfields, a remote region of bleak wastes,
flesh-rending temperatures, and indescribable solitude.

Adventure Background

During his rise, as the Domain’s most powerful and
influential thief, Sivian Ulphar the Lucre King brought
about the deaths of many potential rivals, including an
accomplished burglar named Navarro. Upon Navarro's
death, the Domain of Hawkmoon lost one of its greatest
poets. The enigmatic Navarro was both a thief and a
lyricist. Upon his death, only one piece of his work
remained unpublished; Navarro died before he could de-
liver the Nine Plus One Paragraphs to his publishers in
Hawkmoon. After cremating their master’s body, Navarro's
apprentice thieves divided the text's ten chapters among
themselves. These chapters, known as the Paragraphs
Poetica, have since passed through many hands and been
the objects of countless quests.

The Paragraphs deal with such esoterica as philosophy
and theology, also containing numerous sketches of traps
and ways to disable them. They allude to the resting-places
of various rare and wondrous items that Navarro encoun-
tered during his long career as a thief. In one of the
Paragraphs is inscribed the true name of a demon that calls
itself Kinazbo. An arctic ranger named Arak once owned
this particular Paragraph, but a year ago he ventured
through the Scar-in-the-Sky Peaks to the mysterious
Frostfields, and was never seen again. The Frostfields are a
desolate, wintry region, bearing one incredibly strange
geographical feature: at the foot of the mountains is a
canyon where all the ice is as red as if it were carved from
a tuby; the river that courses through the canyon is the
color of blood.

Adventure Synopsis

The adventure begins with the PCs in pursuit of the
Paragraph Poetica that once belonged to the ranger Arak,
aquest which leads them across the wastes of the Frostfields
toa long-forgotten cavern complex and the headwaters of
a strange crimson river—Arak’s last known destination.
The caves themselves are built into the walls of a vast and
mysterious gorge known as the Rubicund Chasm, at the
bottom of which flows a river of icy red water. On the far
side of the caverns, the heroes locate the river’s headwaters
in a mystical land called Shilmagar.

Shilmagar is a verdant and magical place lit by an
artificial sun and moon that shine from within a special
tower. With a little exploration, the heroes discover the
secret of the valley: an otherworldly race of sentient

31

 

Whiatare the Skree?

The Skree are schola

further the:

enment. In appe

more complete understanding of the multiverse.

beetles who call themselves the Skree created this realm to
inhabit when their own grew too cold to support life. One
of the byproducts of their potent arcane efforts is the river
that colored the legendary Rubicund Chasm. The Skree’s
own powerful magic proved their undoing, however, all
but wiping them off the face of the world. While exploring
the Skree towers, the PCs help protect a tribe of beetle-
worshipping bugbears from extinction at the hands of a
massive goblin clan. They may also plunder the forgotten
Skree city for its treasures, and they have a chance to
acquire bits of lore concerning the vanished Skree, per-
haps giving that lost race a second chance at life.

Ofcourse, no one knows of the Skree. Most folk who are
aware of the Rubicund Chasm avoid it unconditionally,
believing it to be the birthing place of demons. If the
heroes ask around before setting off in search of the red
river, they're able to find a few battle-hardened adventur-
ers in the region of the Igdanvor Forest that have seen the
Chasm, but never ventured into it. Speculation abounds as
to the Chasm’s origins, each rumor more fabulous than the
last.

Character Hooks

Several means exist for involving the PCs in this scenario:
¢ The heroes’ homeland is under siege from a demon
called Kinazbo. The lost Paragraph Poetica contains,
among other things, Kinazbo’s true name. Discovering
this name helps the heroes gain ascendancy over the
demon and save their home from being overwhelmed by
the creature’s dread horde.

A thief working for Sivian Ulphar employs the PCs to
locate the Paragraph, in which is contained a sketched
map of a certain vault or treasury. Optionally, a wizard
hires the PCs to find the Paragraph, which supposedly
holds the secret to a rare spell formula.

The heroes require a certain magical item, spell, or
chart, and only the Paragraph Poetica can lead them to
what they desire.

 
