 

CHAPTER TWO: CAVES

Regardless of the method used for embroiling the heroes
in this adventure, they should be given means of locating
the Rubicund Chasm, as the Frostfields are a featureless
barren offering no landmarks for the rare traveler to gauge
his progress. If under the employ of an NPC, the party is
provided with a map, indicating the location of a cave
entrance in the Chasm a few miles from the southern edge
of the ice field as depicted on the Domain of Hawkmoon
overland map. If seeking the Paragraph Poetica of their
own accord, the PCs acquire a map in any fashion the DM
desires.

Southward Bound

Unless the PCs possess magical means of travel, the trip
to the Frostfields through the Scar-in-the-Sky should be a
lengthy and arduous one. Though the exact details of such
a journey are not detailed here, you should take the time
to develop aseries of relevant encounters, keeping in mind
the feral and highly dangerous nature of the mountains.
Encounters within these peaks can become an adventure
unto themselves.

Read or paraphrase the following text when the heroes
eventually reach the ice field.

You stand on the edge of a white wasteland. The
Frostfields are an arctic desert, the ferocity of the wind
equaled in intensity only by the unimaginable depths
of the cold. Most of the ground is covered by several
feet of solid ice, ranging in color from ash-gray to
blinding white. Ugly, colorless plants poke up from
the rare patches of exposed earth, their thorny stems
coated with hoarfrost. The land itself is featureless
and flat until encountering the mountains that sur-
round it on all sides.

The weather is the PCs’ immediate foe. Anyone with
the temerity to strike out unprepared across the ice is
subject to the effects of the extreme temperature, which
drains the body of 1 Constitution point per hour, affecting
even those characters bundled up in cold-weather gear.
Only the direct warmth of fire or magic prevents this loss
of Constitution points. Unprotected characters lose 2
Constitution points per hour, as well as 2 points of Strength.
If either ability score reaches 0, the character is debilitated
and slips into hypothermia, losing an additional point per
round until he or she freezes to death at -10.

Anyone with exposed flesh must make a Fortitude save
(DC 15) once per hour. Failure means the character has
contracted frostbite, suffering 1d6 hit points of damage. At
the DM's option, frostbite renders that area of the body
numb and immobile until sufficiently warmed. Horses and
other sturdy mounts face the same effects, albeit twice as
slowly. Wise PCs frequently break for camp, building fire
which returns lost points at the rate of 1 per 20 minutes.

The wind plays havoc on combat, imposing a—4 penalty
on all missile fire. Additionally, for every two miles the
heroes journey across the ice, they stand a chance of
encountering one of the doughty denizens of this brutal
realm. Roll 1d12 and consult the following table. On any
result of 9 or higher, no encounter occurs. On a roll of 1-

AND THE HIDDEN VALE

8, apply the suggested encounter or insert one of your own.
Statistics for these monsters appear in the MM.

1d12 Monster # Appearing EL
1-2 Polar Bears 2 6
3-4 Frost Worm. dL, 12
6-6 Winter Wolves 2 7
7-8 Frost Giant 1 9

Edge of aRed Abyss

Plunging down 400 feet into the frozen earth and
spanning a distance of no less than 300 feet is a dangerous
ravine known as the Rubicund Chasm. With walls of sheer ice
broken intermittently by wind-carved cliffs, the Chasm poses a
serious challenge to the most experienced mountaineer. Rubi-
cund Chasm isone of the unexplained wonders of the Frostfields,
asitswallsare made of strange red ice, asifstained with blood. The
redness permeatesall the ice around the mighty flume, givingno
clue as to how it came to exist. The walls are also extremely
slippery, and the occasional handhold is generally a blade of ice
honed toa fine edge by the whetstone of the wind.

However, the Chasm isn’t the only wondroussight. A fantas-
tic river of crimson water runs through the canyon. The river is
sluggish, clogged with hunks of red ice—like blood clots. It
emerges froma tunnel in the east and oozes slowly westward like
agreat bleeding wound. The river originates in the fabulous glen
called Shilmagar. However, because itrunsunderground, follow-
ing the river to the glen is nearly impossible. Unless the PCs
possess extraordinary means of protecting themselves from the
heart-stopping temperature of the water, not to mention breath-
ing during the extensive trip through the water-filled passage,
they are forced to follow the river via the caverns.

Barely visible in the Chasm’s northem face (opposite the
PCs), about 380 feet down, where the river emerges from the
ground, is a small cave entrance (Spot check [DC 20] to
recognize). The ranger Arak was last seen striking off into the
darkness of this cave. Spanning the river in front of the cave isa
tickety rope bridge. The rope has been dyed red and is thus
invisible against the canyon walls and the river below. In order
toreach the bottom of the gorge, cross the bridge, andeventually
enter the cave, the heroes may use either magical or mundane
means of travel, although the latter involves a harrowing series
of ability and skill checks as ropes, crampons, ice axes, and
belaying lines are used to facilitate the 400-foot descent to the
south end of the rope bridge. Simply climbing down the wall
unaided is difficult, if not altogether impossible. After making a
Wilderness Lore check (DC 20) to find an area with sufficient
handholds, four successful Climb checks (DC 26) permit the PC
to reach the bridge. Without handholds to provide purchase,
four Climb checks (DC 35) are needed.

Ifthe PCshappened to bringalong 400 feet of rope, they might
think toanchoroneendatthe top of the chasmand simply lower
themselves down. However, the tricky winds and the sharp ice
conspire to fray and quickly sever the rope. A Wilderness Lore
check (DC20) allows the heroes to position their rope in an area
safe from this effect before they find out the hard way.

Anyone whofailsaClimb check or loses their grip on the rope
plummets to the crimson river, sustaining 1d6 points of damage
for every 10 feet of the fall (maximum 20d6). The river is so cold
astorequireasubmerged PC tomakean immediate Constitution
check (DC 18). Failure indicates a loss of 1d4+1 Constitution

32
