ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

points per round until the character either freezes to
death or is pulled from the water. A hero who makes a
successful Constitution check still takes 1d2 points of
Constitution damage per round. Lost ability points
retum at the rate of | per minute ifthe PCs able tofind
a fire or other suitable source of warmth.

A sample series of checks for aided climbers might
go something like this: One of the PCs makes a Use
Rope check (DC 12) to belay all climbers. The lead
climber attempts a Climb check (DC 18) to descend
every 100-foot increment. If he’s successful, all other
climbers make Climb checks at (DC 10) forevery 100
feet. If the leader fails his check, the DC for all other
climbers increases to 15. Any failed roll means that the
characteris falling, and the nearest climber must make
a Strength check (DC 15) to arrest the fall. If this
checkalso fails, then that character isalso pulled loose,
and the next climber must make a Strength check
(DC 20). This 5-point progression continues until
someone succeeds in his ability check or the entire
team is yanked from the canyon face.

When the heroes reach the narrow ice ledge at the
bottom of the gorge, they clearly see the cave on the
north side of the river, as well as the bridge that leads
to it. Though the 150-foot rope bridge sways precari-
ously in the wind, it remains relatively safe (Dexterity
check [DC 12] to avoid slipping and falling 20 feet to
the river). Ifyou think the party has had it too easy up
tothis point, feel free to stage an encounter with arctic
bugbears or a yeti on the bridge. Fighting on the
swinging span results in a—4 penalty to all attack rolls.
Anyone who misses an attack with a slashing or
bludgeoning weapon must make an immediate Dex-
terity check (DC 15) or be carried over the side of the
bridge by their own momentum.

Ifanyone takes a sample of the unnatural red water
for purposes of scientific or magical investigation, they
find it completely unadulterated, despite its appear-
ance. No explanation can be found for its foreboding
sanguine color.

The Mawof Darkness

Once the PCs have reached the end of the rope
bridge, they may enter the caverns and pursue the river
to its headwaters. The course of the river has altered
many times through the years, forming these icy caves,
which range in color from pale pink to fiery scarlet. The
PCs encounter the underground river one time during
theirjourney, butformostoftheirspelunking, they must
depend on the distant sound of running water as proof
that their goal lies beyond these tunnels. They also get
some help, cryptic though it may be, from one who has
passed this way before.

Besides being an adventurer par excellence, Arak the
ranger also fancied himself something of a poet, in the
tradition of his idol, the great Navarro. In several places
throughout the caves, Arak carved directions into the
ice in the form of verse. Each of these couplets was
meant to aid him, or anyone else, should this treacher-
ous path again be chosen.

 
