 

CHAPTER TWO: CAVES

Cavern Features

Beyond the cave entrance, the darkness is impen-
etrable. Those with darkvision have no problem
discerning their companions, but the remainder of
their surroundings isa uniform black color. The PCs
need a light source, and whatever they choose is
hampered by the mag
sickly ae surfe

in the ice. The

a 20% chance of d the blocks. The
subsequent rain of ice deals 3410 points of damage to
Gejoce dite ven Wienke kaneis Ge
ground, a Reflex save (DC 15) indicating the PC has
jumped clear of the falling debris.

Unless otherwise noted, the ceilings are 15 ft. high
throughout the caverns.

 

When describingtheatmosphere ofthe cavernstotheplayers,
keep the tone lonely, ominous, and alien. Instead of the raging
wind of the ice field, darkness now becomes the PCs’ most
constant companion. On the open plain, a traveler has the stars
tokeephim company. In here, beneath ten million tons of earth
and ice, the silence is deeper. The air seems colder, damper. A
person hastime to think, toconjure images from nightmares that
haunt him the entire trip. Even dwarves feel a slight uneasiness
when passing through this queer red icy darkness. The distant
sound of dripping water must be a lie, because every surface is
frozen solid. The cavernsare as red and unnaturalas the river that
formed them. No one feels quite at his or her ease.

Refer to the appropriate map when the heroes enter the cave.

KeyedLocations

1. Tongue of White (EL 4)

The light dims noticeably as soon as you step into
the mouth of the cave. The cliff behind you offers a
commanding view of the Rubicund Chasm and the
eerie red river that runs through it. In front of you,
the waning light illuminates a large cavern with four
distinct passageways, like fingers leading into dark-
ness. The floor is smooth and slick, but the walls and
ceiling have been carved like a massive, multifac-
eted crimson gem by years of flowing water. The
light reflects in strange patterns off the many sur-
faces, distorting your sense of depth and distance.
You can discern a large patch of white ice in the
middle of the otherwise red cavern, lying between ‘
- you and the tunnels beyond. i

AND THE HIDDEN VALE

Though there are actually five tunnels leading from thisroom,
only four are readily apparent. Three of these angle slightly
upward, terminating in dead ends (Areas 3, 4, and 6); over the
years, the ice slowly built up on the floor until these passages
becamesealed offatthe farend where floorandceilingmeet. The
“thumb” of the hand-shaped chamber is a hidden tunnel,
obscured from sight by a combination of optics and debris. Light
reflects off the pile of stones in this area to make it appears if the
PCsare lookingatasolid wall. A casual glance reveals the passage
ona Spot check (DC 25). Otherwise, the tunnel is located ona
Search check (DC 18) if the heroes actively inspect the area.
Scratched into the ice just inside the entrance is the first of Arak’s
clues, found on a Search check (DC 15):

The mouth of darkness swallows light

Tread soft the quiet tongue of white

Arak’s metaphor of “quiet tongue of white” alludes to the
creature that makes this cave its home. The creature lies
quiescent until the PCs draw near.

Creature: The patch of white ice is not ice at all, but actually
arare form of arctic ooze. Arctic ooze has the same abilities as its
cousin, gray ooze, with one exception: its touch inflicts a bone-
chilling cold that causes paralysis in 1 round and death after 5
rounds, unless the freezing process is arrested by bringing the
victim into close proximity with a major heat source, such as a
campfire. The heat of a single torch isn’t enough to warm the
victim sufficiently.

Arctic Ooze: CR 4; hp 30; see the Appendix.
2.Hidden Hall

Anyone traversing thisdownward-sloping passage must make
a Dexterity check (DC 15) or slip and fall, taking 1d2 points of
damage. At the far end of the tunnel is a 40-foot pit, the bottom
of which is covered in ice shards. A fall into the pit deals 5d6
points of damage. Midway down the pitisasmall crawlspace that
leads to the passage to Area 7. Because of the mirror effects of the
red ice, the opening is difficult to see from the top of the shaft
(Spot check [DC 20]). Anyone who descendsslowly into the pit
easilyspies thisnarrow tunnel. Climbingthe walls withoutarope
istricky ,requiringasuccessful Climbcheck (DC 27). Thetunnel
itselfisa little over 3 feet wide, forcing most PCs tocrawlon their
hands and knees until it broadens after a few feet, eventually
leading to Area 7.

3-IcyEnd

The tunnel peters out after a short distance, the result of
seismic activity, the shifting river, and the ever-increasing
amount of ice.

4.Coinsof the Dead

The passage comes to an end in a narrow place where
the floor meets the ceiling, evidently the point of a
cave-in some time in the distant past. Half buried
undera mound of rocks is what appears to be an apelike
humanoid, its fur coated in red ice.

This corpse is all that remains of a yeti that had the misfortune
of being trapped here when a portion of the ceiling gave way. If
the PCs “take 20” to excavate the body, they find a small pouch
made of woven hair, frozen into the flesh around its neck. Inside
the pouch are 6 featureless, coin-size disks of strange red crystal.

34
