 

CHAPTER TWO: CAVES

These are actually pieces of Skree currency, given to the yeti by
the bugbears of Shilmagar.

5. Mudslide

The passage before you slopes noticeably downward
into even deeper degrees of darkness. Oddly enough,
there is a strange and unexpected warmth seeping
through the ground here. Within a few steps, you are
standing in 6 inches of red-black mud. Pink water
drips from the ceiling, adding to the mire.

‘This passage is a natural trap. A small underground hot spring
provides the warmth that melts the ice. Unfortunately, the
spring has created a muddy bog. The uncertain footing requires
anyone who steps in the mud to make a Reflex save (DC 15) to
avoid slipping, hitting the ground, and sliding down the steeply
angled passage in a wave of red mud. Beyond the reach of the
heated spring, the passage is once again slick with ice and
continues downward until it empties into a deep sinkhole.
Anyone who fails a second Reflex save (DC 20) slides over the
rim of the pit and falls 40 feet to the bottom. The mud provides
abit ofa cushion, so that anyone who falls takes only 346 points
of damage.

The bottom of thesinkhole is beyond the heatingeffects ofthe
springand thustheicy chill quickly freezes the fresh red mud. The
mud solidifies in 2 rounds, effectively trapping anyone still
standing in the bottom of the pit. A Strength check (DC 20) is
required to break free once the mud freezes, or the PC may “take
20” to chip away at the mud. The slick walls are extremely
difficult to Climb (DC 30).

Midway up the pit is a rough-hewn tunnel leading to area 9,
difficult to see from the top or bottom of the pit (Spot check [DC
22), but easily detected ifa PC is climbing the pit wall.

6.Echoesof the Past

The end of this passage contains the remnants of a campsite.
The PCs find the bones ofa small fowl, a few scraps of jerky, and
a whetstone left behind by the tunnel’s former occupant. Other
than these few items, the only thing of note about the tunnel is
its uncanny acoustical effect; even a soft whisper is greatly
amplified, ringing off the walls for the extent of the tunnel.

7.FurandFury(EL1o, ELw/Remorhazes)
"Thetutinel leading down from thepitin Area 1 slopesstexply
downward until it opens into the cavern described below.

The river has carved another wide chamber from the
mountain. The floor is of rippled red ice and rises at a
slight incline until it nearly touches the ceiling at the far
end ofthe room. Directly across from you stands a 15-foot
wall builtentirely of rust-redice. Itlooksas ifrough blocks
of ice have been mined from the earth and stacked to
form a barrier. At various intervals, the wall seems to
havemelted. What heat source could melt so largea wall,
youcannotguess, but ithas succeeded in piercing the wall
at the southern end, where a gaping hole waits.

   

The wall was built by the yeti that inhabit this cave, to protect
themselves from the pair of mated remorhazes in Area 8. If the
PCs inspect the wall, read the following:

AND THE HIDDEN VALE

There are actually two walls here, another having
been built behind the first. This wall is also pierced
with unnatural openings, allowing access to the north.
The two walls forma hallway running to the west and
opening to another cavern. Covering the ground
midway along this hall, the ice on the floor appears
irregular, as if overgrown with thick, ruddy lichen.

Upon closer inspection, the patch of irregular ice is revealed
to be a pelt of some type. This pelt once belonged to a yeti, the
tough, apelike creatures of northern legend. The resident yeti
family uses this hide to cover the crude pit trap they hope catchs
their tormentors, the remorhazes. The PCs should have little
trouble discerning the trap through investigation (Search check
[DC 12]), butas soon as their attention is focused on the pit, the
yeti attack from a pile of rocks on the south side of their lair.

Trap: The pit trap is simple and poorly concealed, but if
anyoneshouldfallintothe pitduringthe battle with the yeti, they
take 2d6 points ofdamage. Anyone in danger ofbeingforced into
the pit should make a Reflex save (DC 15) toavoid it. Ifthe PCs
engage the yeti in combat, the remorhazes come to inspect the
sounds of combat and arrive after 4 rounds If the PCs defeat the
yeti, they can inspect the lair, which serves as both living and
sleeping quarters for the yeti.

Creatures: The 8 yeti are a small family consisting of | male,
3 females, and 4 young. They are always vigilant, for fear the fiery
beasts may attack them at any time. The yeti stand behind the
rocky barricade they have built (75% cover provides +7 AC
bonus and +3 to all Reflex saves), hurling icy rocks at their
enemies. After 3 rounds, their rocks are depleted and they leap
over the wall onto any remaining opponents, trying to position
themselves to use their gaze attack (see below). For statistical
purposes, a yeti is similar to a standard ape, with the addition of
a paralyzing gaze and resistance to cold. Their abundant fur is
deep red rather than white, the result of years of genetic
adaptation to this area.

Yeti (8): CR 4; hp 26 each; see the Tome of Horrors by
Necromancer Games.

Treasure: Though yeti do not put value in gold and other
treasure, searching the chamber reveals many items taken from
otheradventurers, including virtually every type of climbing and
spelunking implement. There is also 90 feet of rope, though
anything found here has a 50% chance of being in such a state
of disrepairas tobe useless. Because of its extraordinary insulating
properties, a yeti pelt is worth 300 gp to the right buyer.

8, FireintheHole(ELo)

This tunnel is smooth and round, as if it has been bored
into the ice by some fiery mole. The ground isslick and the
footing is treacherous. The tunnel follows no logical
course as it winds its way deeper into the mountain,
opening intoachambercontainingseveral large eggs. The
walls tremble with the sounds of distant running water.

This chamber belongs to the remorhazes and has been
hollowed out by the intense heat of these exothermic creatures.
The remorhazes have carved many such tunnels, one of them
leading to Area 11.

Creatures: Though remorhazes are by nature solitary beasts,
these two recently mated, and the male has not yet left the lair.

36
