ALAMENTATI

Moments after the PCs arrive here, the remorhazes enter from
another passage, howling at the intrusion. Other than the two
eggs (which could fetch up to 1,000 gp each if the right market
is found), the remothazes have no treasure.

Remorhazes (2): CR 7; hp 75, 70; see the MM.

9.CrypticClue

Though this caver is empty, one of Arak’s couplets is carved
near the opening of the western passage.

Fur and furnace to keep them warm

Avoid them both to keep from harm

The verse refers to the creatures found in Areas 7 and 8.

10. FrozenGrave(EL7)

Though this chamber was evidently once large enough
to accommodate a small contingent of giants, the red
earth has since consumed most of it in a massive
collapse. All that remains is the white, ice-covered body
of what appears to be a frost giant, dead and well
preserved; the ice that coats the body is obviously not
the same as that which comprises the caves themselves.
The giant's head lies under the rubble of the cave-in,
though its torso and legsarestill visible. Encrusted in the
ice beside the giant is a massive greatsword.

This chamber was once the lair of the creature in Area 12—
a mature adult white dragon. However, most of the cave was
destroyed during the dragon’s battle with a frost giant explorer.
The white frost covering the giant’s body is not the unnatural red
ice of the caverns, but the effect of the dragon’s breath weapon.
Her lair demolished, the dragon was forced to move deeper into
thecaves. Allthatshe left behind wasthe giant’ssword. Ifthe PCs
spend halfan hour cutting away the icy carapace or melt it with
magical means, they may claim the sword. However, disturbing
the sword invokes the wrath of the giant's spirit, which lingers
restlessly over the place of its death.

Creature: The frost giant haunts this cave as a spectre,
manifesting itself if the PCs tamper with either its body or its
sword. The spectre appears as a ghostly double of its former self,
although itseyesarenowred pitsand its “skin” is blueandcracked
from the damage inflicted upon it by the dragon.

Spectre: CR 7; hp 45; see the MM.

Treasure: The giant's sword is called the Fang of Glorthaak. It
once belonged to Glorthaak the Score-fingered, a notorious
human warrior froma foreign land. Glorthaak was knownas the
“Score-fingered” because he had two sets of arms. His battle
prowess was terrible to behold, as he could fight with four
weapons at once. His weapon of choice, however, was an
oversized greatsword, large enough to accommodate his four
hands. The Fang of Glorthaak requires a Strength of 20 to wield
and is considered a huge +2 greatsword (base 2d8 points of
damage) that also protects its wielder as per a ring of warmth.

.BlackRain

You stand on the southern shore of an underground
lake of cold water the color of blood. Across the wide
expanse of water, a red waterfall crashes down from 50
feet overhead. The water apparently drains into the
ground under the lake, only to emerge as the river you

ON OF THIEVES

saw in the chasm. Where the water has splashed
onto the rocky wall near the bottom of the falls, the
ice has frozen into almost lifelike shapes. Though it
would take an artist years to carve such a depiction,
the splashing water appears to have formed the
sculpture without a human touch. One of these
sculptures, extending from the top of the falls across
the cavern wall, is what looks like a large net. The
net reaches from the floor to the cliff from which the
water plummets. At its center is the distinct form of
a large scarab beetle. The whole construction is
made entirely of red ice.

The only exit from this cavern is found at the top of the
waterfall. The PCs have traveled downward a considerable
distance and now have to climb back up to find an exit from the
caves. To get there, the PCs mustclimbtheslippery yetsturdy net
of ice (Climb check [DC 25}) or use magic to reach the top of the
falls. The net and the beetle were formed by the water splashing
up from the waterfall. The image is perfectly formed from the
magic instilled in the river by the Skree. The bugbears of
Shilmagar consider this a holy site, though they only occasion-
ally venture here. There is nothing else notable about the ice
sculpture except the words that are carved onto the beetle itself.

Up and up without a breath

The end is near, so too death

The last of Arak’s messages can be found by searching the
beetle itself (Search check [DC 18]), indicating that the way to
Shilmagar is at the top of the waterfall. The couplet also refers to
thesleepinginhabitant of Area 12, whoisbetter left undisturbed.

Once atthe top of the waterfall, the PCs face a true mountain-
eering challenge. The river emerges from the rock, so the heroes
are unable to follow it. The only way out of the caves is by
climbing the 75-foot ice wall to a rift in the top of the cave.
Though the wall isalmosta perfect vertical ascent, there areafew
hand- and footholds to provide purchase for a patient climber.
Unless the PCs can reach the top of the wall with the assistance
of magic, they must rely on pitons, ropes, and ice axes. Even with
these implements, the Climb checks (DC 35) are made. Each
climber must make at least 2 checks to attain the summit.

If the heroes clear the rift, they see what appears to be a pale
white glowing sphere, like a tiny moon, hanging in thesky tothe
north. A half-mile march brings them to the edge of Shilmagar.

12. LetSleeping Dragons Lie(EL)

This caver is vast. Nearly 300 feet directly overhead,
a huge hole in the ceiling apparently opens onto the
outside world. Dim light filters down from above. Theair
isfresherhere, and almostfeelsa little warmer. Neverthe-
less, as you peer into the darkness, an unaccountable
feeling of despair settles over your heart, like hoarfrost
coating a stone. You cannot explain the source of this
feeling Caos yoleene decir oe nated bomen:
where deeper in the cavem.

The light from above is very weak, as it shines from the
Moonsun Spire of distant Shilmagarand must fight the dimming
power of the iceas it makes its way through the cavern. Ifthe PCs
climb through the orifice at the top of this chamber, a final half-
mile hike brings them to the ledge overlooking Shilmagar.

37

 
