 
 
 
  

ALAMENTATION OF THIEVES

Valley of Wonder

Read the following when the PCs finally
emerge from the caverns and step out onto the
ledge that overlooks Shilmagar:

Surely, you must be dreaming. Either
that, or you have stepped through a por-
tal to an alternate dimension, because
the lands you now look down upon from
your high and icy vantage point bear no
resemblance to the frozen caverns be-
hind you. Instead, a warm and lush jungle
lies before you, a place of towering green
trees, exotic fragrances, multi-colored
plant life, and flocks of orange-feathered
birds swooping across a perfectly blue
sky. Brooks of clear water meander
through the trees, and the jungle teems
with the sounds of wildlife. The headwa-
ters of the strange red river appear to be
alake that glitters in the sunlight. A herd
of gazelle emerges from the jungle and
strolls languidly across the savannah.

In the center of the valley stands the
single tallest tower you have ever seen. It
must rise at least half a mile into the sky!
The tower is so tall, in fact, that it obvi-
ously could not be standing without the
aid of potent magic. From the tower's
summit glows a powerful golden light
that bathes the vale in pleasant spring-
time warmth. Though the mountains
around the glen are locked in ice, this
area remains a comfortable, life-produc-
ing temperature, all due to the incredible
heat emanating from the tower's peak.
This artificial sunlight also illuminates
what seem to be four smaller red towers
that rise over the trees. These lesser tow-
ers twinkle in the sun as if made of
nothing less than polished ruby. Vines
crawl up the sides of these gemstone
towers, as if intent on claiming them for
the jungle. At the base of the ice moun-
tain on which you stand, on the very
edge of the savannah, is what looks to be
a collection of primitive huts.

Refer to the Shilmagar map. Here at last is
the hidden vale, known to students of myth as
Shilmagar. Though located near the world’s
polar caps and hemmed on all sides by ice, the
valley abounds with life, thanks to the energy
of the Moonsun Spire; for twelve hours the
Spire glows with the light of the sun, following
this with twelve hours of pale moonlight. When
the PCs arrive, the Spire is in its sun cycle.
Shortly after they arrive, the light begins to
dim, to be replaced by a milky radiance very
much like that of the moon. Though the
planet’s actual sun is unseen six months out of
