 

CHAPTER TWO: CAVES

the year at these latitudes, the Spire has turned the glen
into a place of localized vivacity, home to hundreds of
mammal species, from birds to small burrowing animals.
The valley hasa diameter of 50 miles. Essentially, Shilmagar
is a primeval forest virtually unsullied by man.

In fact, Shilmagar’s only sentient inhabitants are two
tribes of humanoids: the Rynog goblin clan and the
Catterclaw bugbears. How these two competing tribes
came to dwell here, no one is certain; perhaps they were
driven across the ice fields by predators hundreds of years
ago, or lured here by the valley’s creators. Regardless, the
goblins outnumber the bugbears nearly four-to-one, and
when the PCs enter the scene, they find the Catterclaws
on the verge of extinction.

Though all the heroes need to do to complete their quest
is retrieve the Paragraph Poetica from one of the Skree
towers, the gods of charity smile favorably upon them if
they also protect the bugbears from destruction, while
avoiding an internecine war with the Rynogs.

To enter Shilmagar, the PCs must carefully descend the
moderately sloped mountain of ice. Once they set foot on
the grass, they find that the temperature increases appre-
ciably. The wonders of Shilmagar lie before them. They
may follow the river to Damask Lake (Area A), investigate
the huts (Area B), or set off into the jungle toward the
mysterious red towers (Area C).

Keyed Locations
A. Damask Lake

This body of water bears literal evidence of the Skree’s
misguided magic. In an attempt to keep Shilmagar’s water
clean and free of contaminants, the Skree introduced a
self-replicating, magical cleansing agent into the lake.
Though this potent arcane additive does indeed render
inert any possible toxin, it has an obvious side effect—it
stains nearly anything it touches. The Damask appears
very much like a lake of blood. Over the eons since the
Skree created the ever-flowing river, it has seeped south-
ward into the once-white ice fields, dyeing them
permanently red. Though human and demihuman skin is
not susceptible to this discoloration, practically every
other type of organic material is affected, including goblin
and bugbear flesh. (Of course, you are free to include
humansand demihumans among those affected by the dye,
although the effect is permanent until cleansed with dispel
magic or similar efforts.)

Schools of freshwater fish swim in placid Damask Lake,
every species a different hue of red. The lake magically
perpetuates itself, providing a constant flow into the ice
fields to the south. Though the heroes might suspect
otherwise, the water is perfectly safe to drink. In fact, it’s
quite possibly the best water they’ve ever sampled.

The opacity of the water impedes vision beyond the
depth of a few inches. However, if the PCs enter the
lake and swim down 60 feet to the bottom, a Search
check (DC 25) leads them to a submerged Skree
artifact. As interstellar traders, the Skree acquired this
item from a group known as the Kwalish. The Skree
supplemented the machine with magic, augmenting

AND THE HIDDEN VALE

its powers. The device is known as an apparatus of
Kwalish. See the Wonderous Items section of the DMG
for details.

B. Bugbear Village (EL 12)

Of the 40 bugbears that reside in these mud and fabric
huts, only 16 are capable of effective combat, the others
being elderly, infirm or young. Several have been seriously
wounded in recent conflicts with the goblins. Over the last
few years, relations with their goblin neighbors have
disintegrated. In response, the bugbears have constructed
acrude wooden palisade around their two dozen huts. Read
the following when the PCs approach:

As you near what appears to be a small village, it
becomes apparent that the inhabitants are making
preparations to expel invaders. A wall made of sharp-
ened tree trunks surrounds the encampment, one
encircled by a ring of thorny bushes, providing a
double barricade around the camp. Inexpertly fash-
ioned crossbows are mounted at strategic points along
the battlement, and every now and then a vaguely
humanoid shape is seen moving behind the wall.
Chimney smoke rises from the village, followed by the
metallic clamor of a blacksmith at work in a forge.

How this encounter develops depends entirely upon the
PCs’ intentions and method of approach. Other than their
goblin enemies, the bugbears have never laid eyes on a
humanoid before, but their initial fear can be assuaged if
the PCs present themselves in a peaceable manner. More
than anything, the Catterclaws want to survive. If they
believe the PCs have been sent to defend the village (as
agents of the “Beetle Gods,” perhaps), or if the heroes
present them with sufficient gestures of goodwill, the tribal
leaders tell their warriors to stand down, immediately
beseeching the newcomers for aid against the evil goblin
horde. For such a parley to take place, the heroes must be
able to communicate with the bugbears. If nothing else,
creative players can find a way to use a combination of sign
language and pictures drawn in the dirt.

After inviting the PCs into his hut, the tribal chieftain,
Moghar, explains that his people have been subject to
repeated goblin ambushes, and though they are individu-
ally larger and stronger than the goblins, they haven’t
enough warriors to withstand the continued waves of
attack. The goblin king is said to be especially fearsome,
garbed as he is in “the armor of the gods.”

Moghar believes that the four towers were once the
home of the “Beetle Gods.” As long as the goblins control
the towers, the bugbears have no hope of defeating them.
Chief Moghar implores the PCs tostrike at the heart of the
goblin clan and secure the Beetle God legacy for the
bugbears. Unfortunately, he has nothing to offer as pay-
mentforsuch services, other than the thanksand friendship
of his tribe. The result of this offer hinges entirely upon the
PC’ response.

Of course, the heroes are under no obligation to nego-
tiate with the Catterclaws. If they attack the bugbear
village, the warriors defend their families to the death.

40
