ALAMENTATI

Note that the Catterclaws have red flesh and red fur, the
result of drinking and bathing in the magical river.
Bugbears (16): CR 2; hp 16 each; see the MM.
Moghar, Bugbear chieftain: CR 2; hp 27; other statis-
tics as per the MM.

C.Jungle

The jungle’s undergrowth is so thick and the canopy of
trees so intertwined, entering this place is like walking into
a world without earth or sky. Indeed, every step falls on
spongy layers of humus, vines, grass, and fallen leaves,
while overhead the densely woven treetops obscure all but
a few golden slivers of light. Modify movement rates and
vision as necessary.

In order to establish a dynamic ecosystem, the Skree
introduced several parasites, vermin, mammals, reptiles,
and avians to the jungle they created. Roll 1420 and
consult the following table for every half-mile the PCs
travel through the jungle. On any result of 13 or higher, no
encounter occurs. On a roll of 1-12, apply the suggested
encounter or insert one of your own. Statistics for these

monsters appear in the MM.

1d20 Monster # Appearing EL
12 Giant ants, soldier 4 6
3-4 Assassin vines Z 5
5-6 Leopards 2 4
7-8 Apes 4 6
9-10 Giant constrictor snake — 1 4
11-12 Tiger 1 3
D. Tower of Tranquility

Rising at least 75 feet above the jungle floor, dwarfing
the tallest of the trees, isa round tower made of seamless
translucent stone, very much like red crystal or ruby.
The tower is approximately 30feet in diameter. Though
vines and other foliage have woven a thick matting
around its base, bearing testament to the years the
structure has stood untended, the tower otherwise
shows no sign of age or wear. Its glassy surface is free of
scratches. Although you have the impression that the
tower is truly ancient, it gleams in the light of the false
sun as if only erected this morning. There are no
windows, doors, or other apertures, except for what
appears to be a single circular opening near the tower's
summit, some 70 feet overhead.

When the Rynog goblins discovered these abandoned
towers a century ago, they spent months contriving a
means to enter them. They had not the climbing skills to
scale the utterly sheer surfaces, nor had they sufficient rope
to assist their ascent. After considerable weeks of weaving
rope from jungle vines, they encountered their second
dilemma: how could they anchor the rope ina window that
was 70 feet off the ground? Finally they designed a bow and
arrow powerful enough to carry the rope, anda few intrepid
“volunteers” were sent inside to reconnoiter the building.
Though the goblins eventually found a tower suitable for
settlement (Area Tower G), their initial sojourn into the
forsaken Skree strongholds proved disastrous. This is the

ON OF THIEVES

first tower the goblins entered some hundred years ago.
They have not ventured inside since.

The red crystal is not of this world. It is impervious to all
physical attacks, though magic affects it as if it were
standard crystal. Trying to climb the smooth tower wall
withouta rope is impossible. The easiest means of reaching
the aperture is by magic, though innovative players can
find other means of getting themselves inside. The first
character to reach the window frightens the flock of birds
that nests here, causing them to rush out in a feathered
wave. This sudden explosion of activity forces anyone at
the window to make a Reflex save (DC 15) to avoid being
startled and losing his grip on the rope or window ledge.
Once the birds clear out, the PCs may enter the tower. The
opening is a perfect circle 3 feet in diameter. Darkness
reigns inside. Refer to tower cutaway diagram.

Dr. Upper Landing

The Skree constructed their towers for purposes of
defense. By using the spell spider climb, these beetle-
creatures easily ascended the smooth walls, while the high
position of the entrances prevented other creatures from
dropping in unannounced. Both intelligent and benign,
the Skree had no interest in conquering or exploiting
those around them. They desired only to live in a peaceful
environment where they could practice their magical arts
undisturbed. They alighted on this planet at the end of a
journey from a distant world and immediately used their
most potent spells to create the Moonsun Spire and
occasion the growth of life in the valley. Though the Skree
had long life spans, they were not immortal. Their elders
died and the unwary among them were killed by predators.
They used the Tower of Tranquility to house their dead.

The PCs find this area thick with bird droppings, bits of
dirt and clay, powdered eggshells, and innumerable feath-
ers. The walls are caked with dried mud, the ceiling
crowded with nests of every size and variety. There is a
single opening in the center of the floor.

Da. Shaft of the Dead (EL9)

As shown on the map, the majority of this tower is a
hollow tube. At the mouth of the opening to Area D1, the
Skree anchored one of their special nets of high-tensile
silver thread. This netting runs down the center of the
tower all the way to the bottom, permitting access to the
dozens of platforms along the walls. Each platform holds at
least one interred Skree, bound in a net shroud of varie-
gated threads. Affixed to each platform is a red crystal
nameplate bearing the dead creature’s name in the Skree’s
nearly indecipherable script. The heroes can use the net-
ting to climb down the length of the shaft and investigate
the platforms. The netting is as resilient as a standard rope
(Hardness 0; hp 2; Break [DC 23]).

Though the PCs feel a decided air of peace and stillness
in this chamber, all is not as the Skree intended. Perhaps
due to the powerful magic they wielded in their life, the
Negative Energy Plane has poisoned a few of the dead.
They haunt the tower as wraiths.

Creatures: As the PCs descend the netting, 2 beetle-
wraiths float toward them and attack, while 2 more move
to block the exit to D1. Though these creatures cannot

Al

 
