CHAPT TWO: CAVES AND THE HIDDEN VALE

 

spawn undead from the spirits of their victims, treat them
as standard wraiths, with the exception of their appear-
ance—oversized beetles composed of darkness, with
smoldering red eyes.

Beetle-Wraiths (4): CR 5; SZ M Undead (Incorpo-
real); HD 5d12; hp 50, 39, 30, 27; Init +7 (Dex, Improved
Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good); AC 15 (+3 Dex, +2
deflection); BAB/Grap +2/—; Atk +5 melee (144, incor-
poreal touch plus 1d6 permanent Con drain, ignores
armor); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4, incorporeal touch plus
1d6 permanent Con drain, ignores armor); SQ daylight
powerlessness, incorporeal, undead, unnatural aura, turn
resistance (+2); AL LE; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +6; Str
—, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15.

Skills: Hide +11, Intimidate +10, Jump +4, Listen +12,
Search +10, Sense Motive +8, Spot +12. Feats: Alertness,
Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative.

The PCs may explore the tower if they defeat the
beetle-wraiths. Impress upon them the bizarre nature of
the platform, the nameplates, and the red crystal itself.
This is an alien environment, and astute players rightly
assume that the tower’s original builders were not of this
world. Decrypting the nameplates is impossible without
the aid of magic or the Decipher Script skill (DC 25). The
plates bearsuch appellationsas “Inosphor” and “Qualiora.”
The largest platform, twice as wide as any of the others,
serves as the final resting-place of one of the Skree’s great
sage-kings. In addition to a nameplate, which reads
“Phirilune IV,” this shroud bears a second inscription.
Translated into Common, the text reads, “We call upon
the memory of home.” This is the activation phrase for the
portal in Area F2.

Treasure: Lying on the platform is an odd metallic ring-
shaped device. The ring is made of red steel. It is 6 inches
in diameter and about an inch thick. It is completely
seamless and featureless. In addition, on the platform is a
small sack woven of silver thread. The sack contains 21
chips of reddish metal (Skree coinage). The ring is actually
avisionband, a magical device that the Skree wore on their
bodies, enabling them to see through the atmospheric
mediums of most of the worlds they explored. Activating
the visionband causes it to emit a strange purplish light in
a cone 30 feet long, and 15 feet wide at its far end.
Anything within the cone is seen as if being viewed in
normal daylight conditions. In other words, the visionband
permits perfect viewing through mundane and magical
darkness, fog, smoke, and other environmental condi-
tions. Underwater objects are not obscured because of the
water. Invisible objects are also made apparent. This
viewing effect lasts for 10 minutes per use. There is enough
energy in the visionband to power it for another 25 appli-
cations. A successful Bardic Knowledge check (DC 30) or
Use Magic Device (DC 25) allows the PCs to intuitively
oraccidentally discover how to operate the visionband: the
user must trace his finger around the visionband’s perim-
eter, making a complete circle. The item may also be
activated in other ways, permitting the light output to be
altered for a different effect (see Area G2 for details).

Resting at the bottom of the shaft are the rotting
skeletons of a dozen goblins, their sparse gear (spears,
slings, et cetera) littering the floor around them. A search

 
