ALAMENTATI

of the bones with a Search check (DC 18) produces a small
vial on a chain; this is the fletcher’s thorn warden (see New
Magical Items in the Appendix). Any PC who takes at
least 20 minutes to conduct a thorough search automati-
cally uncovers the item.

E. Tower of Erudition

This tower appears similar to tower D. Paraphrase the
above description, with one significant alteration: about
20 feet up the tower, an anonymous artist has used plant
dye to paint the image of a savage goblin warrior with a pair
of beetles above its head. Though the goblins gained access
to this tower 100 years ago, they were so frightened by what
they encountered inside that they never entered it again.
If questioned, the goblins refer to this tower as the “place
of the steel beetle.” Refer to the tower cutaway map when
the heroes enter the building.

Er. The Sentinel (EL 10)

This tower houses the bulk of the Skree’s accumulated
knowledge. However, to reach the library proper, the PCs
must first overcome its guardian.

Creature: Straddling the opening to the tower’s lower
levels is what appears to be a large beetle built of the same
ted crystal as the tower itself. The Skree built and pro-
grammed this magical construct to serve as the tower's
custodian, keeping the place free of dust and vermin. Since
the departure of its creators, the construct has carried on its
duties in ruthless fashion; not a flake of dust is allowed to
settle in the vast library below, nor are any intruders
permitted access. The construct has slain every goblin that
has ever tried to enter the building, thus they avoid it
unconditionally. Attached to the construct’s underbelly is
a small collection of tools and cleaning rags. Its metal legs
have been enspelled so that it can climb walls as a the
standard Skree did via use of spider climb. It otherwise
behaves as a lesser iron golem.

Skree Golem: CR 8; SZ M Construct; HD 9d10+20; hp
69; Init -1 (Dex); Spd 30 ft. (can’trun); AC 30 (-1 Dex, +21
natural); BAB/Grap +6/+12; Atk +12 melee (2d8+6, slam);
Full Atk +12 melee (2d8+6 [x4], slam); SQ construct traits,
damage reduction 10/—, magic immunity; AL N; SV Fort
+5, Ref +4, Will +4; Str 23, Dex 9, Con —, Int—, Wis 11,
Cha 1.

SQ—Magic Immunity (Ex): Immune to all spells, spell-
like abilities and supernatural effects; electricity effects slow
it for 3 rounds, with no saving throw; fire cures one point of
damage for each three points it would otherwise deal.

Ea. Library

Though the Skree are a race of philosophers, known
throughout their home star system as thinkers of unsur-
passed scholarship, the bulk of their science remains
inaccessible to the PCs, stored as it is in magic/mechanical
receptacles. A broad silver net runs down the length of the
tower, connecting the platforms of the various levels. Each
platform bears a “bookshelf” of sorts; thousands of fist-sized
globes are racked on the shelves according to some impon-
derable cataloging system. The globes are made of red
crystal, festooned with tiny beads that occasionally flicker
with the remnants of a dying light. There are two methods

ON OF THIEVES

for extracting information from the globes. First, the user
touches the proper sequence of lights (each globe repre-
sents over one million possible light combinations, and no
two globes are encrypted with the same sequence), and the
desired information flows into the user’s mind in standard
Skree symbols. Alternately, a successful Use Magic Device
check (DC 22) causes the globe to disgorge a random series
of pictures into the user’s mind, giving him a glimpse at the
messages stored inside. The magic of the globes is weaken-
ing by the day, so that in another two months, they go
completely dark and all knowledge of the Skree is lost.
The PCs could literally spend months here and barely
tap the wellspring of the Skree’s recorded history. Feel free
to plant any type of information here, detailing as neces-
sary the Skree annals and their flight from their home
planet. Each successful application of Use Magic Device
should reveal one of the following pieces of lore pértinent
to this adventure:
Extraterrestrial beetles known as the Skree created
Shilmagar. The Skree were sages and traders who fled
their home world when it became uninhabitable. They
chose this secluded spot near the Domain because it was
far removed from civilization. They erected the Moonsun
Spire and gave life to the land. They called this place
Shilmagar.
The Skree’s primary construction material is a material
much like red crystal, albeit far more damage-resistant.
The red crystal may be cut, shaped, and joined with a spell
known by Skree craftsmen. The spell is called skreeshape.
In an effort to purify their drinking water, the Skree cast
multiple spells upon the nearby lake. Unfortunately, a
byproduct of the decontamination was the deep crimson
color the lake assumed in its pure state. Skree historians
recorded the canyon to the south was eventually stained
bythe river that drained the lake. (Incidentally, this event
is a metaphor for the entire Skree existence; though they
had good intentions, their plans often outstripped their
magical prowess, eventually culminating in a debacle
approximating self-genocide.)
Though the Skree emigrated when their homeland began
to freeze, they brought with them the means to return to
their native land, should it one day be possible to restore
their planet to its former state. They allude to this trans-
portation device as “the Red Circle.” It is apparently kept
within one of the four towers.
Finally, one of the globes records the end of the Skree’s
tenure in Shilmagar. It seems as if the might of their own.
magic again got the better of them. While trying to
develop an inoculation against a local biological disease,
the Skree healer-sorcerers inadvertently introduced a
plague agent into the colony. Within a year, the popula-
tion had been reduced to less than twenty adult Skree. The
last recorded message describes the Skree’s attempts to
“Tetreat into a state of somnolence” in hopes of outlasting
the deadly epidemic.

F. Tower of the Red Circle

This building houses one of the final secrets of the
extinct Skree, as well as a possible means of revivifying
them as a race. Though they were forced to flee their

43

 
