 

CHAPTER TWO: CAVES

distant home when it began to cool as a result of slipping
away from its star, the Skree didn’t completely sever all ties
with their ancestral abode. Practitioners of both magic and
physics, the Skree forged several teleportation devices of
sufficient power to convey them across entire galaxies.
These devices usually took the form of colossal rings. One
such ring is stored within this tower, its magic dormant
until activated by the proper command.

Fr. Tool Storage (EL 3)

The equipment necessary to sustain the fantastic Skree
inventions were many and manifold, a large sample of
which is kept here. This landing is crammed with odd hand
tools appropriate for use by creatures with six legs, includ-
ing pincers, hammers, screwdrivers, bolt cutters, and dozens
of others—all of them powered by a magic that has long
since faded. Larger apparatus are also found here: inde-
scribable machines for firing engines, elaborate glassworks
for chemical distillation, and coils of cable that once
carried a magical current that gave these implements a
semblance of life. One of these items is actually an ani-
mated object that attacks the PCs if they approach.

Creature: The Skree invented many devices to assist
them in their daily lives, and quite often, these items were
magically animated to improve overall efficiency. This
particular contraption consists of a tall four-wheeled cart
with a pair of articulate arms, each of which is currently
fitted with a circular saw blade.

Rolling Blade, Large Animated Object: CR 3; SZ L
Construct; HD 4d10+30; hp 52; Init +0; Spd 60 ft.; AC 14
(-1 size, +5 natural); BAB/Grap +3/+10; Atk +6 melee
(1d8+3, blades); Full Atk +6 melee (1d8+3 [x2], blades);
Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct traits; AL N; SV Fort +1, Ref
+1, Will -4; Str 16, Dex 10, Con —, Int—, Wis 1, Cha 1.

Treasure: Though the PCs can find an astonishing
array of otherworldly craftsmanship in this chamber, one
item is of particular interest. A Search check (DC 20)
uncovers a hand-held tool about 8 inches long with a knob
at either end. This isa skreestick, holding 26 charges of the
spell skreeshape (see sidebar).

Fa. The Red Circle

This portion of the tower isdominated by amighty red
crystal ring, standing over 10 feet tall. It is impossible _
tosay the tower was built around the ring, or
the ring was assembled within the existing structure.
Either way, the object nearly fills the tower, leaving
only a narrow walkway around itsbase.

The Red Circle is a major artifact and cannot be harmed
by any means available to most player character groups.
Inscribed at the ring’s base is a series of activation glyphs.
If the command phrase from Area D2 is uttered aloud in
the Skree tongue, a portal opens within the ring like a great
eye dilating, and a current of warm air rushes over the PCs.
When the colored mist finally dissipates, the heroes be-
hold what appears to be a jungle thawing from an ice age.
Though there are no signs of animal life in the world
beyond the portal, plants have already begun to return to
their natural state.

AND THE HIDDEN VALE

New Spell: Skreeshape

Transmutation
Level: Sor/Wiz 4

ogether to form a
Eis much like the spell
the spell issufficientto
work a cube of red crystal two feet wide; it would take
two applications to fashion a man-sized suit of armor,
but only one to make a weapon the size of a longsword.
The effect is permanent.

seamless whole. In this sen
stone shape. One application

 

The Skree home world has shifted position again, bring-
ing it back in close proximity to its star, where it remains
for the next several millennia. It is only a matter of time—
perhaps another year or so—before the planet is again
suitable for habitation by insect and mammalalike. At this
point, the PCs may want to investigate this new world;
such a sojourn is beyond the scope of this adventure, to be
detailed as you deem appropriate. The easiest way to keep
the heroes from venturing through the portal is to bar entry
to any non-Skree. Otherwise, you now have at your
disposal an entirely fresh world for the PCs to explore.

Ifthe heroes reinvigorate the Skree held in stasis in Area
G2 and inform them of what lies beyond the portal, the
Skree realize that their salvation may at last be at hand. See
below for details. For more information on the Skree, refer
to the Appendix.

G. Occupied Tower (EL9)

This tower has been transformed into the stronghold of
the Rynog goblins. A staircase made of wood and vines is
connected to the tower, spiraling all the way around it and
permitting access to the opening at the top. The goblins
have built their village around the tower’s base, a hodge-
podge collection of huts and bivouacs, animal pens and
workshops. The entire place reeks of offal and unwashed
goblin flesh. If the goblins are unaware of the PCs’ ap-
proach, they’re busy with crafts and husbandry, though the
warriors among them are always prepared to repel a pos-
sible bugbear assault.

Player characters familiar with the goblin race note one
anomaly: the Rynogs all have skin the color of fire.

Creatures: Of the 200 goblins here, 64 are combatants.
Attacking the entire horde at once is a dangerous propo-
sition for even the most rugged band of heroes, as the
goblins have learned a lot about fighting opponents who

44
