ALAMENTATI

hold a size advantage. Their skirmishes
with the bugbears have taught them the
value of using large numbers to over-
whelm a superior enemy. The goblins
attempt to swarm any attackers and
wrestle them into submission. Refer to
the rules for Grappling in the PHB if the
goblins try to overbear the heroes. In the
event of a major battle, five warriors rush
up the spiral staircase and into the tower
to defend the king.

Goblins (64): CR 1/4; hp 4 each; see
the MM.

Possessions: light mace, 6 darts, small
studded leather armor, small wooden
shield.

G1. Messy Landing

Ifany goblins fled the battle to protect
their king, they meet the PCs on this
landing amidst heaps of trash and build-
ing supplies. The Rynogs have decorated
this area with garish graffiti and other “artwork,” and the
floor is strewn with all manners of crude weapons and
tools. A narrow rope ladder is attached to the opening
in the floor, permitting access to the lower chamber.

Ga. The Goblin King (EL 5)

Once the living quarters of the Skree, this area now
serves as the throne room for Thrats Ironbar, Mighty Ruler
Favored of the Beetle Gods and King of the Rynogs. An
assortment of coarse tapestries hangs on the wall, and the
floor is covered in hand-woven rugs of questionable beauty.
A throne made of logs stands to one side, anda repugnant
stench fills the room. If warned of the PCs’ presence, King
Ironbar hides beneath a mound of soiled rags, hoping to
catch the invaders unawares and slay them with his “flame
of the Beetle Gods.” Ironbar wields a visionband that has
been fitted with a special control coupling, permitting the
light to be focused as a narrow, deadly beam. A strike from
the beam deals 3d10 points of heat damage and drains 3
charges from the visionband. Ironbar has also found and
learned to use a skreestick. He’s managed to make a suit of
red crystal plate mail that renders him all but invincible in
combat against his bugbear enemies.

King Thrats Ironbar, Male Goblin Ftr4: CR 5; SZ S (4
ft. tall); HD 4d10+4; hp 35; Init +5 (Dex, Improved
Initiative); Spd 30 ft.; AC 37 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +25 red
crystal full plate); BAB/Grap +4/+4; Atk +6 melee (1d8,
morningstar) or +6 ranged (3d10, focused visionband,
touch); Full Atk +6 melee (1d8, morningstar) or +6
ranged (3d10, focused visionband, touch); SQ darkvision
(60 ft.); AL NE; SV Fort +5, Ref +2, Will +1; Str 10, Dex
13, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 11.

Skills: Climb +7, Craft (red crystal) +2, Hide +6, Jump
+7, Listen +2, Move Silently +5, Spot +2, Swim +4. Feats:
Alertness, Dodge, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (visionband),
Improved Initiative, Weapon Focus (morningstar).

Possessions: morning star, red crystal full plate, focused
visionband (30 charges), skreestick (12 charges). The red
crystal material of Ironbar’s plate mail has no hit points or

ON OF THIEVES

   
    

hardness value, as it is
impervious to physical
damage. However, each suc-
cessful strike by a skreestick reduces

Ironbar’s AC by 5 points, until the armor

completely falls away after 5 strikes.

Treasure: The PCs may search the chamber as soon as
they dispatch Ironbar. A successful Search check (DC 20)
through the refuse around the throne uncovers a grimy
satchel fastened with a simple lock (Open Locks [DC 12]).
Inside the satchel are several inoperable Skree tools and a
few shiny stones that caught Ironbar’s eye, as well as a
bleached human skull and a scroll case made of varnished
sandalwood. Inside the case isa single sheet of paper nearly
3-feet long when unrolled. This is the Paragraph Poetica.
The skull is all that remains of the ranger Arak after
Ironbar’s minions were through with him. Also behind the
throne are two blocks of red crystal that Ironbar was
intending to use as armor for his personal bodyguards. Each
block is a 1-foot cube, weighing 50 Ibs., enough to manu-
facture a like weight of plate armor.

The true treasure, secreted under the floor, is found on
a Search check (DC 22). Ironbar was unaware of this
trapdoor in the floor of his throne room, beneath which is
a shallow niche holding the enshrouded bodies of two
adult Skree, their biological systems held in abeyance by a
spell similar to temporal stasis. If revived via dispel magic
with a successful Caster Level check (DC 20) or similar
methods, the Skree slowly return to life and readily engage

45

 
