 

CHAPTER TWO: CAVES

the PCs in conversation. Their names roughly translate to
Isspian and Hiloon; they were the last two Skree left
unaffected by the terrible wasting disease which claimed
their brethren. Though they use caution when dealing
with the PCs, their initial reticence quickly fades if the
heroes make an effort to convince them of their good
intentions. They have been asleep for nearly 500 years.
They are eager to hear whatever news the PCs can provide.

Isspian and Hiloon, Male and Female Skree Sor10:
CR 10; SZ M Outsider; HD 10d4+10; hp 45; Init +5 (Dex,
Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft; AC 16 (+1 Dex, +5
natural); BAB/Grap +5/+5; Atk +5 melee (1d6, bite); Full
Atk +5 melee (1d6, bite); SQ: spells, tremorsense; AL LN;
Fort +5, Ref +3, Will +6; Str 11, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 20,
Wis 15, Cha 18.

Skills: Alchemy +14, Climb +8, Concentration +16,
Hide +5, Knowledge (arcana) +11, Knowledge (physics)
+11, Listen +5, Move Silently +9, Spellcraft +16, Spot +5.
Feats: Combat Casting, Improved Initiative, Spell Pen-
etration.

Sorcerer Spells Known (Cast Per Day: 6/7/7/7/6/4; save
DC 14 + spell level): 0—arcane mark, detect magic, ghost
sound, light, mage hand, mending, open/close, read magic,
resistance; 1st—comprehend languages, magic missile, shield,
spider climb, unseen servant; 2nd—alter self, Mel's acid
arrow, see invisibility, web; 3rd—invisibility sphere, lightning
bolt, summon monster III; 4th—minor creation, and poly-
morph self; 5th—teleport.

Possessions: Isspian and Hiloon both wear small sacks of
lightweight silver thread, in which they carry a visionband
(60 charges) with control coupling, a skreestick (60
charges), and an arcane scroll inscribed with the Skree
tunes for the spells fabricate, spider climb, and teleport.

Reading the Paragraph Poetica: What lore does the
fabled Paragraph Poetica contain? The options are nearly
limitless, with only a few of the possibilities listed here: the
true name of the demon Kinazbo, unique spell formulae,
diagrams of traps Navarro encountered during his tenure
asa thief, blueprints of vaults and safe houses, poems and
bits of doggerel, and a description of a collection of
wondrous items known as the Bells of Heaven (see Chap-
ter Three for more details of the Bells and their legacy). To
lend a sense of realism to the game, prepare in advance
several player handouts to represent sections of the Para-
graph Poetica, such as maps and sketches. If you’re not up
to composing an epic poem to serve as an example of
Navarro’s work, feel free to borrow from the classics;
Byron’s “The Prisoner of Chillon” is a good example of
poetry from the Romantic era, one with which the players
may not be familiar.

H. Moonsun Spire

This incredible edifice is 2,500 feet tall! Though only 10
feet wide, the tower is able to stand fast because of the
heavy magic that fortifies it. The tower has no doors of any

AND THE HIDDEN VALE

kind, being simply a straight pillar of red crystal nearly half
a mile high. The tower is hollow, but empty. If the PCs
somehow reach its summit, they discover a simple glass
globe mounted on a metal bracket. The globe has been
permanently enchanted to radiate light nearly as powerful
as the sun fora period of 12 hours, followed bya like period
of “night,” during which a pale moon-colored glow ema-
nates from the globe. The globe cannot be removed by
anything less than a wish. If taken from its bracket, it ceases
to function.

Concluding the Adventure

If the heroes route the goblins and scatter them to the
jungle, they earn the undying respect of the Catterclaws.
Moghar throws a great feast in their honor and bestows
upon them such favorsas beaded necklaces, antler-handled
knives, and feathered headdresses. If the PCs resuscitated
Isspian and Hiloon, the Skree thank them profusely,
though there’s little they can give the heroes in the form
of a monetary reward. The bulk of their goods have been
lost over the five centuries they've been asleep. If the PCs
are looking for payment, they'll have to follow the Skree
through the gate in the Red Circle and brave whatever
strange and horrible creatures now roam the planet. If
nothing else, Isspian and Hiloon offer to teleport the PCs
back to their homes, as both Skree are accomplished
sorcerers and would be glad to save the heroes a fatiguing
journey.

Once they return home, the heroes may use the informa-
tion in the Paragraph Poeticaas they see fit. The Paragraph
is a good way to introduce new spells or adventure hooks
into the campaign.

Continuing the Adventure

The heroes now have several new lanes of adventure
lying before them. If they activated the portal in the Red
Circle, they have the entire Skree homeland to explore. If
the Skree are to reestablish a presence there, they need
assistance in fending off the dangers inherent in a world
recently released from the grips of an ice age. Perhaps while
the Skree were away, other, less peaceful races arrived in
their absence. The Skree are ill equipped to deal with such
perils, and they offer to trade many odd and wonderful
items in exchange for the PCs’ assistance. Such items are,
of course, held inside the vaults on the Skree planet, so the
heroes need to commit to an extended expedition if
they're to claim their reward.

Shilmagar presents many possibilities for adventure,
limited only by the nature of your campaign. Other than
the ubiquitous birds and animals, what else dwells here?
Possibilities include Skree golems with flight capabilities
and perhaps a xenophobic djinni that has adopted part of
the jungle as his home. Whatever the djinni is doing here,
he certainly is not in the mood for interruptions...

46
