Chapter Three:

The events in this chapter are best suited for four PCs of
12th level.

Adventure Background

The master storyline of A Lamentation of Thieves isa tale
of revenge. Twenty years ago the mayor of Hawkmoon
hired a team of explorers to expunge a nest of humanoid
raiders from the fortified ruins of an ancient iron foundry.
Though the raiders were vanquished and an unexpected
fortune discovered beneath the ruins, most of the explorers
were slain in the endeavor. Of the original dozen, only
four—battered and bloody—reached the dungeon’s final
chamber. With tears of awe glistening in their eyes, they
beheld a treasure that even the oldest of elves had forgot-
ten: a collection of 12 oversized sapphires known as the
Bells of Heaven.

The four survivors returned to Hawkmoon, rich beyond
the ken of normal men. Each man owned three Bells of
Heaven, which were valuable both as gemstones and as
objects of magical power. As precious jewels, they were
worth a fortune. As magic items, they could be used either
for great good or terrible evil, depending on the desires of
the owner. The expedition’s dashing, dark-skinned leader,
Sivian Ulphar, sold all three of his Bells. With the profits,
he bought a thousand allies in the underworld and used
them to gain ascendancy over the city’s notorious thieves’
guild. His wealth surpassed only by his prowess as a burglar,
Sivian laid rightful claim to the title of Hawkmoon’s most
powerful citizen. With the help of his younger sister, whom
he appointed assistant guildmaster, Sivian extended the
tendrils of his organization to the far reaches of the
Domain.

Sivian’s friend, Elias Fellspar, also sold his entire collec-
tion of Bells. Fellspar had served as the expedition’s chief
scholar. His knowledge of esoterica ranked him as one of
the region’s foremost sages. The oldest and arguably wisest
member of the party, Elias used his riches to fulfill a simple
childhood dream: he opened a wax museum. Charmingly
eccentric, Elias now lives a quiet and comfortable life,
carving his wax statues and telling the tale of the Bells of
Heaven to any that ask.

The expedition’s two spellcasters, a dwarf wizard named
Paraxus and a half-ore sorcerer known only as the Mecha-
nician, decided to become partners to further their magical
studies. Each sold two of his Bells, retaining a pair between.
them to use for research into the higher aspects of
spellcasting. They jealously guarded their Bells, carrying
them on their persons at all times. Paraxus and the Mecha-
nician combined their massive resources to construct what
they intended to be the single most extraordinary house of
magic in the known world. As the only two demihumans
in the original party, Paraxus and the Mechanician were

naturally drawn to each other, and their burgeoning dis-
trust of humans prompted them to build their fortress well
away from the Hawkmoon environs, somewhere deep
within the Forlorn Mountains. It was suspected that they
used the power of the Bells to slay the denizens of the
surrounding area, including one entire clan of mountain
dwarves. None who entered the region ever came out to
tell the tale.

Deep within the bowels of his lavish underground pal-
ace, Sivian Ulphar began to suspect that wealth and fame
had rotted the hearts of his former companions, just as the
sun spoils fruit left too long beneath its light. He feared
that the dwarf and half-orc would one day use their power
to spread blight upon the Domain. Though lesser thieves
had tried and failed to locate the stronghold and plunder
its riches, Sivian was confident that his sister’s team could
find and penetrate the fortress, and then discover the
Mechanician’s innermost secrets.

Alas, Sivian was mistaken. The attempted operation
was entirely thwarted, all participants killed in the Forlorn
Mountains. Sivian’s sister was never seen again. That was
five years ago. The heroes learn that a handful of others
have attempted to follow her trail since then, most of them
foreign thieves looking to try their hand at locating the
half-orc’s legendary home. Rumor has it that the mayor
himself sent a unit of specialists into the mountains, but
this effort too was doomed.

One year later, the story took another strange turn. On
arare visit to Hawkmoon, Paraxus’s disguise was foiled at
a most inopportune moment. He was found standing over
amutilated corpse. He was charged with murdering a local
prostitute, found guilty, and sentenced to the lifelong
gulag of the penal ship Pariah. During their stay in the
Domain, the PCs occasionally hear bards relating the story
of the trial, though details of the case are sketchy. Some
people wondered if the half-orc had framed Paraxus in
order to keep intact the secret location of their mountain
fastness. Regardless, men in high places still fear the
unknown arts being practiced in the Forlorn Mountains.
Fortunately, the elusive Mechanician keeps to himself,
and the domain of Hawkmoon remains a relatively peace-
ful place. This is the status quo when the PCs become
entangled in the tale.

The pivot upon which the storyline turns is this: of
the original expedition two decades ago, there were
not eight people slain, but nine. Unbeknownst to his
companions, Elias Fellspar was killed in the dungeon
just before the party reached the final chamber. He
immediately returned from death as an undead abomi-
nation known as a bhuta. He blames the group’s
leader, Sivian Ulphar, for the debacle that led to his
current state. For twenty years, he has stoked his
hatred, looking for an opportunity. Though he ap-

47

 
