 

CHAPTER THREE: THE SOUL OF VENGEANCE

pears as a kindly if slightly befuddled museum cura-
tor, this is nothing but clever artifice to conceal his
true intentions. Revenge glitters in his heart like
stars in a black sky.

Adventure Synopsis

Elias Fellspar hires the PCs to seek out the impris-
oned Paraxus and learn the whereabouts of his Bell of
Heaven, ostensibly to prevent it from falling into the
wrong hands. When the dwarf was arrested, he didn’t
have the gemstone with him. Fellspar rightly suspects
that the dwarf hid the Bell before venturing to
Hawkmoon that fateful day, and with his subsequent
imprisonment, the Bell has remained sequestered
away four long years. Fellspar tells the PCs that he
must prevent the Mechanician or some other equally
untrustworthy type from laying claim to the stone.
He asserts that the Mechanician would use the Bell to
further increase the powers of his fell magic, perhaps
endangering the entire Domain. Fellspar wants the
PCs to recover the Bell so that it can be turned over
to the proper authorities for examination. In reality,
Fellspar has discovered that the Mechanician has
imprisoned the soul of Sivian’s sister within the gem
via the spell trap the soul. Fellspar intends to use the
Bell to exact a long-overdue revenge.

Fellspar of course does not reveal to the PCs that he
is actually a bhuta; in fact, he is quite personable,
even charming. He tells the PCs of the prison barge
Pariah; Paraxus is incarcerated there, with his head
full of secrets. The PCs set out across the Moonsilver
Sea and contrive a means to sneak aboard the prison
ship. After conducting a bit of hasty diplomacy with
several warring factions of inmates, the PCs seek out
Paraxus himself—only to find him dead. The dwarf
was killed a year ago under mysterious circumstances.
However, the PCs locate a single clue that Paraxus
left behind. This clue is a riddle that, if solved,
reveals the location of the Bell of Heaven.

Unaware of Fellspar’s intentions, the heroes head
back to the wax museum with the Bell in hand.
However, Sivian Ulphar’s minions intercept them,
and the-PCs find themselves in a tense parley with
the guildmaster himself. Though he does not know
the Bell contains his sister's trapped spirit, the
guildmaster is certain that Elias is conducting some
kind of perfidious operation. Sivian encourages the
heroes to scour the depths of the house of wax to
discover Elias’s true intentions. The gloomy Wax-
works underneath the museum turns out to be a
horrifying place, where tallow golems come to life
and waxen shrouds cover the corpses of those unfor-
tunate enough to have crossed Elias Fellspar’s
unforgiving path.

If the heroes survive the ordeal, they have the
chance to put the shackles on one of Hawkmoon’s
most dangerous citizens, as well as restore Sivian’s
sister to life.

The House of Wax

The PCs visit Fellspar’s museum two times, once as
employees, and a second time as infiltrators.

Character Hooks

Using either of the following means, you should have
little difficulty netting the PCs with Elias’s ever-growing
web of evil:

Elias Fellspar has heard that the heroes are out for hire.

He asks them to meet him in the museum.
¢ An NPC friend suggests that the heroes speak with

Fellspar about a possible job; if they’re not motivated by

greed alone, the NPC mentions that Fellspar needs help

purging a threat to the city.

Tothe Museum

The museum’s normal operating hours are not like those
of other businesses, but rather from sunset to three in the
morning. Elias Fellspar is a paranoid fellow and keeps all
doorsand windows stoutly locked atall other times through-
out the day. His museum contains many dreadful secrets
that he fully intends to keep to himself. As he and his staff
work late at night, they usually sleep during the afternoon,
at which times the building’s defenses are considered to be
on alert. PCs who visit the museum at times other than
standard business hours find the place sealed tight; they
must either wait until the museum opens for the evening,
or break in (which may be the case if they are here to
investigate the premises at the behest of Sivian Ulphar).
During non-business hours, consult the passages marked
Alert for additional information. It is likely that the heroes
visit the museum twice, the first time as Elias Fellspar’s
potential business partners, and the second time as his
enemies.

Refer to the House of Wax map. When the PCs ap-
proach the museum, read or paraphrase the following:

Occupying a busy street corner in the city’s bustling
market district, Fellspar’s House of Wax draws a
continuous stream of visitors, most of them eager
children dragging their parents behind. Known
throughout town as a place of strange sights and
curious artifacts, Fellspar’s museum is popularamong
travelers, its image enhanced by the building’s fore-
boding architecture; with its angular roof adorned
with grotesque statuary, the museum casts a sinister
shadow on the street below. The wooden walls are
stained a deep black, the windows are heavily cur-
tained to shut out the light, and an iron column as
thick as a tree trunk bears a sign with the words
FELLSPAR’S HOUSEOF WAX AND WONDERS
painted the color of dried blood. The museum parlor
is accessed by a pair of heavy double doors. One of
the doors is held ajar by what appears to be a human
skull. A candle burns behind the skull’s eye sockets.

The skull is not real, but a fake made of hardened clay.
During non-business hours, the doors are securely locked.
If the PCs approach at some time other than five P.M. to

48
