ALAMENTATION OF THEIVES

three A.M., they find the museum closed. Otherwise, the
doors stand open, revealing the parlor.

Ironbound Wooden Door: 3 in. thick; Hardness 8; hp
20; Break (DC 28); Open Lock (DC 28). Failure to
successfully pick the lock releases a small mallet within the
door. The mallet strikes a bell, the sound of which is heard
bby thosedncthe upper level ona iamucherk (DC 203, and
by those in the lower level (DC 28). The mallet may be
detected (Search check [DC 18]) and removed (Disable
Device [DC 20]).

Keyed Locations

1. Parlor (EL7)

Beyond the double doors is a small, comfortable room,
the floor covered entirely in a well-worn red carpet, the
walls hung with mirrors of various designs. Behind a
large teak desk sits a woman so thin and pale that she
appears likely to shrivel and turn to dust. Her dull
brown hair hangs listlessly in her face, and her corpselike
features are twisted into a parody of a smile. One hand
holds a quill pen, the other rests on a large open book.
The woman stares straight ahead, her eyes without
luster—and then you realize that this woman is made
of wax! A clever sculpture she is indeed, right down to
the fine white hairs on her arms. As you're examining
the lifelike lashes on her dead eyes, a door in the south
wall opens, and through it steps a middle-aged man in
an ill-fitting black suit. A pair of spectacles perches
upon his wrinkled nose. “Well met,” he says. “I am
called Risvane, and it is my sincerest pleasure to
welcome you to the tomb of wax cadavers and the
courtroom of wax kings, Fellspar’s House of Wax,
menagerie of the misshapen, hall of the hideous.”

As he stated, this is Risvane, elder tour guide and
Fellspar’s accomplice in matters both noble and nefarious.
Though he isn’t aware of the full extent of his employer's
plan, Risvane knows that a band of brave souls is needed
to recover the Bell of Heaven. Once the heroes state the
purpose of their visit, Risvane asks them to sign in, as all
visitors must do, though he waives the usual fee of 1 cp for
entering the museum. After all, the heroes aren’t here for
a tour! Signing in involves taking the quill from the wax
dummy’s hand, an experience, which is harmless, but
perhaps a little disconcerting. After everyone has
autographed the ledger, Risvane conducts him or her
through the south door.

Alert: Risvane sleeps in this room on a cot he keeps in
the closet. If he hears an intruder, he hurries off to inform
Elias Fellspar. If caught unawares, he fights rather than
runs, but continuously shouts out a warning.

Creature: Not only does Risvane attack and raise the
general alarm, but he also shouts through the doorway into
the street, hoping to rouse passersby into bringing help. He
afterwards explains to the constables that he and his
employer were subject to a brutal and unprovoked assault
at the hands of the PCs.

Risvane, Male Human Ftr7: CR 7; SZ M (6 ft., 5 in.
tall); HD 7d10+21; hp 59; Init +4 (Improved initiative);
Spd 30 ft.; AC 10; BAB/Grap +7/+11; Atk +13/+8 melee
(1d8+8, +2 longsword, 19-20/x2); Full Atk +13/+8 melee
(1d8+8, +2 longsword, 19-20/x2); AL LE; SV Fort +8, Ref
+2, Will +3; Str 18, Dex 10, Con 16, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 12.

Skills: Appraise +1, Handle Animal +5, Knowledge
(arcana) +2, Listen +9, Spot +3. Feats: Alertness, Blind-
Fight, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Leadership,
Quick Draw, Weapon Focus (longsword), Weapon Spe-
cialization (longsword).

Possessions: +2 longsword, pouch containing 52 gp and a
love letter from a woman named Rosalind.

Personality: Risvane is cold and austere, businesslike at
all times. He is a slave to money, and his loyalty is thus
firmly in Fellspar’s possession. He is unaware that Fellspar
is actually a bhuta.

2. Closet

This small room contains Risvane’s cot, as well as
various cleaning supplies and a stock of spare candles,
torches and the like.

3. Privy

This narrow, smelly place serves as the only latrine in
the building. Though a clay pot of incense burns here, the
fumes do little to conceal the stench.

Alert: The incense isn’t burning, and the subsequent
odor is nearly overpowering. Anyone who spends more
than a minute here must make a Fortitude save (DC 15) or
become nauseous and suffer a—1 penalty to all rolls for the
next 1d4+1 minutes.

4. Waiting Room

This roomis lined with chairs and benches. Visitors wait
here before entering the Grand Showroom. During busi-
ness hours, this room is occupied by 2d4 common townfolk,
at least half of whom are children. One of the children,
Turvin, is fascinated with the heroes, intrigued by their
strange gear and clothes. Turvin peppers the PCs with all
manners of childlike questions concerning their weapons,
quests, and of course whether or not they’ve seen any
dragons. If the PCs take the museum tour, Turvin follows
them, constantly chattering away. If Risvane has led the
PCs here, he asks them to wait for a few moments while he
speaks with the museum’s owner. He enters the Office
(Area 5), closing the door behind him. Five minutes later,
he returns to conduct them into the Office for their parley
with Elias Fellspar. Refer to The Meeting, below.

Alert: Every day after locking up the museum, Risvane
sets a ward in this room in the form a tripwire across the
curtained threshold to Area 7. The tripwire is so fine as to
be noticed only a Spot check (DC 22), or located on a
Search check (DC 20). The tripwire runs through the floor
to the Waxworks below, sounding a series of chimes that
are heard throughout the facility on a Listen check (DC
12). The tripwire may either be stepped over or removed

(Disable Device [DC 15]).

49

 
