 

CHAPTER THREE: THE SOUL OF VENGEANCE

5. Office (EL3)

With the exception of the meeting between the PCs and
Elias Fellspar, this room is always considered to be on Alert.

The office is tidy, if somewhat plain. The walls are bare,
save for a single framed certificate that appears to be a
license to conduct business here in the city. A large, heavy
table rests in the center of the floor, surrounded by just
enough chairs to accommodate Elias and the PCs. A desk
is also here, quite clean and well kept, along with a tall
cabinet and a brass brazier on four long support legs. The
coals of the brazier are burning, providing the room with
pleasing warmth. A bright blue curtain serves asa partition
between this room and the Private Quarters.

Alert: Like Elias Fellspar himself, this room is not so
mundane as it appears to be. Three items of note exist here,
includingan animated guardian, a trap, and an all-seeing eye.

Creature: The brazier comes to life whenever someone
enters this room without either Fellspar or his aide, Risvane.
Itfights until either all adversaries flee the room (it doesn’t
pursue into either area 4 or area 6), or until its own
destruction.

Animated Brazier, Medium Animated Object: CR 3;
SZ M Construct; HD 2d10+20; hp 31; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.;
AC 14 (+4 natural); BAB/Grap +1/+2; Atk +2 melee
(1d6+1, slam plus 1d6 fire); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6+1,
slam plus 1d6 fire); SA fire; SQ construct traits; ALN; SV
Fort 0, Ref 0, Will -5; Str 12, Dex 10, Con —, Int —, Wis
1, Cha 1.

SA—Fire (Ex): Each slam also deals fire damage; refer to
the section on Catching on Fire in the DMG for rules needed.

Trap: The cabinet contains a variety of mundane sup-
plies, includingcleaning agents, ledgers, receipts, et cetera.
Fellspar has protected it with a special version of the fire
trap spell he commissioned froma local wizard. The fire trap
is permanent, and Fellspar may turn it on and off with a
command word that only he knows.

Fire Trap: 5-ft. radius of fire (1d4+16 points of dam-
age); Reflex save (DC 20) for half damage ; Search (DC
28); Disable Device (DC 28).

The Eye: If the PCs move the framed certificate, they
behold a gruesome sight. Embedded in the wall is what
appears to be a single, large human eye. The eye seems to
be alive; it is moist, a little bloodshot, and occasionally it
blinks a pale eyelid. The eye is the result of a strange spell
that involved melding a human eye with a nonliving
thing—in this case, the museum wall. The eye has X-ray
vision and sees through the certificate into the Office. It
also has darkvision, as well as 7 ranks in the Spot skill. In
addition, what the eye sees, Fellspar sees. So long as he is
within the building, Fellspar knows the moment the Office
is infiltrated. By concentrating, he sees through the eye
and watches any activities performed in this room. De-
stroying the eye (Hardness 2, hp 6) has no affect on
Fellspar himself.

The Meeting

After offering the heroes some simple refreshments,
Fellspar tells them much of the story found in the Adven-
ture Background, omitting only those details that would

 

impugn him. He mentions Sivian Ulphar, now known as
the Lucre King. He speaks of their discovery of the Bells of
Heaven and the wealth that discovery brought them. He
concludes his soliloquy by stating his belief that the
Mechanician plans to use Paraxus’s Bell of Heaven for
some malign plan, if he is able to lay claim to it. The PCs
must get to it first. Once aboard the prison ship, they must
coerce or convince the dwarf to reveal the gemstone’s
location. In exchange for the this information, the PCs
should give Paraxus whatever he asks in return, even if that
means abetting his escape from the ship. Fellspar believes
that releasing the dwarf from imprisonment is a small price
to pay for the evil that can be averted by the acquisition of
the Bell of Heaven and the defeat of the Mechanician’s
unknown scheme.

By now the PCs should have heard rumors of the Pariah,
so they know their task is not be an easy one. Fellspar is a
wealthy man and offers the heroes 3,000 gp each to accept
the challenge. He’s willing to go as high as 5,000 gp each
if the PCs are particularly persuasive (or if they succeed in
a Charisma check [DC 22]).

If the heroes agree to Fellspar’s proposition, they may set
out for the seacoast whenever they like. Fellspar recently
paid city judiciary employees fora log of the Pariah’s course
through the Moonsilver Sea. He gives the PCs the ap-
proximate current location of the ship, though he knows
nothing about its defenses. If the PCs want to conduct
research on the Pariah before setting out for her, or if they
are ready to seek out the ship right now, proceed to the
second part of this chapter, Ship of Perdition. You return
to the House of Wax after the PCs secure the Bell and meet
with Sivian Ulphar.

6. Private Quarters

Like the Office, this room is always on Alert. Obviously,
the room’s occupant is quite fastidious, as everything is
clean and organized. The bed has been made, the floor
swept, the wood polished. A doublewide wardrobe stands
in the corner. Fellspar keeps almost nothing of value here,
preferring to hide it underground in Area 17.

The wardrobe contains a huge collection of clothes. The
garments are of the finest quality and the latest styles.
There are nearly 20 pairs of shoes and an alarming number

Showroom should

ling experience.
