CHAPTER THREE: THE SOUL OF VENGEANCE

of colored scarves. Obviously only a very
wealthy individual could afford such sarto-
rial excess. Together the clothes are worth
nearly 5,000 gp. Crammed in amongst
them is a robe of scintillating colors that
likely goes unnoticed unless someone casts
detect magic and conducts an examination
of the wardrobe.

Alert: As this chamber is always on
Alert, it remains the same regardless of
when it is visited.

7. Grand Showroom

Before you is the grand exhibit hall, full of
dozens of eerie wax people in a variety of
poses. The vast room is dark, intermit-
tently lit with soft pools of lamplight near
each of the silent statues. The exhibits
range from the mundane faces of com-
moners to the hideous visages of creatures
thatarehalf-manandhalf-monster. Some
are sculpted to appear in the acts of walk-
ing, working,andotherformsofmovement,
while many are cast as tall and straight as
pillars, gazing sightlessly into the shadows.
All of these wax statues have been carved
with skillful precision, so that it almost
seems as if you gaze upon a room of living,
breathing beings. Only their eyes, dull and
lifeless, betray thisillusion. A path consist-
ing of a threadbare blue carpet winds
between the statues.

Theexhibit directly in frontof youappears
to offer a greeting at your arrival. A man.
anda woman, arms linked, smile down at
you from thei wooden dais, They've been
carved to appear as if wearing flowing
white garments and golden crowns. Per-
haps they represent some long-dead king
and queen. Whoever they are, they seem.
happy enough to see you. The blue carpet
path leads to the east. One of the woman’s
fingers has been broken off, like a candle
snapped in half. As you watch, ablack bug
crawls around the man’s face.

This is one of the oldest exhibits in the

through the museum, Risvane tells them
that they look upona likeness of Prince
Andrin and Lady Ervana, who hailed
from a faraway land and died hundreds
¥ of years ago at the conclusion of a long
and bittersweet romantic disaster. Elias
Fellspar, who carved all the statues here in
the museum, heard stories of Andrin and
Ervana when he wasa child, andasan adult
immortalized them in wax.
Actually, this is Anin and Rana, and they
were not always statues. They were once

 
