ALAMENTATION OF THEIVES

alive. Rana was Fellspar’s lover. He caught her one night
with Anin, murdered them both, and sealed their bodies in
wax cocoons. Fellspar has perfected this process of funerary
encasement, so that it is nearly impossible for a viewer to
look upon the statues and see anything but wax dummies. If
one of the PCs actually chips away at the waxy coating,
which is nearly an inch thick, he or she is permitted an
Intelligence check (DC 18) to realize that these are not
standard museum mannequins. Fellspar refers to the process
as “envelopment.” Others aside from Anin and Rana have
been enveloped, as described in the Waxworks.

Note that not all of the figures in the room are described
here. In fact, there are dozens of statues filling the room.
Detail them as you like, perhaps including likenesses of
prominent figures from your own campaign world.

8. The Knights (EL)

Seven statues of armored warriors occupy this area of the
showroom. Some are designed to appear bloody and bat-
teredas if fresh from battle, while others are garbed in waxen
finery, as if they might be attending the king's ball. One or
more of these figures could represent famous knights from
the history of your world, and are recognized as such.

Alert: Three of these men-at-arms are not really sculp-
tures at all, but a new form of monster called tallow golems.
Fellspar created the golems with the help of a hired
sorcerer, an unfortunate man whom Fellspar “enveloped”
after the golems were created. Fellspar commanded the
golems to stand here unmoving, serving as fine exhibits.
They are only to move if someone enters the showroom
after the bell has sounded to announce the hour of three
A.M. and the closing of the museum. If the PCs have
returned to the building to investigate Fellspar, they only
“activate” the golems under two conditions: (1) they enter
the room ata time other than normal business hours, or (2)
Fellspar learns of their plans (perhaps via the magic eye in
area 5) and gives the golems the command to move and
attack. If such a command is given, the golems prowl the
showroom for several minutes in search of a target, then
proceed mindlessly down the staircase at area 13 to the
Waxworks below.

Creatures: For more information on tallow golems,
including an explanation of their special abilities, refer to
the Appendix.

Tallow golems: CR 8; hp 55 each; see the Appendix.

9. Missing Statue

The only things to be seen on this display pedestal are
two waxen feet, broken off at the ankles. There is no
evidence of the rest of the statue. Ifasked, Risvane says that
a museum visitor accidentally bumped into the piece. The
statue was ruined, but no other harm was done. Though
this story is true, the sight of the severed feet might cause
discomfort and feelings of uncertainty in the heroes, feel-
ings which Risvane does nothing to assuage.

to. The Beholder

This carving of a beholder is Fellspar’s masterpiece. The
sheer size and detail of the monster always elicit gasps of

astonishment from those who look upon it. As the
showroom’s piece de resistance, the beholder commands the
attention of everyone in the room, towering above the
other sculptures and emanating such lifelike menace that
it seems only seconds away from turning its multiple
eyestalks upon the viewers and letting loose a barrage of
magical effects. However, despite its realism, the beholder
is nothing but a wax rendering—a brilliant one, but wax
nonetheless. PCs who've witnessed the tallow golems
come to life, however, might be more than a little wary of
the beholder.

1. The Thief

There are many statues occupying the showroom—.
beggars, nobles, figures of myth—but this chap is perhaps
the ugliest. Though human, his features are so distended
and ill proportioned that he is even more loathsome to
behold than the homeliest of half-orcs. The figure is
dressed much like a burglar, in a black bodysuit and soft
boots, with his fist wrapped around several delicately
carved lockpicks. The bag at his feet is quite real and full
of sugary treats. Whenever conducting children through
the museum, Risvane always stops here to give them a bit
of “plunder” from the thief’s sack.

Actually, this man was enveloped. Hisname was Wavnor,
and he had the bad luck of selecting the museum asa target
for his thievery. Fellspar caught him in the Waxworks and,
knowing he couldn’t let the man live with the secrets he
saw there, he ordered the golems to attack. He then
enveloped the dead man’s body in a waxen carapace, but
only after bludgeoning his face in a fit of childlike spite,
hence the man’s misshapen facial features.

12. The Skeleton King (EL 14)

This sculpture, which appears as an armored skeleton
wearing a crown, sits upon an imposing throne, also carved
of wax. A sword rests in the skeleton’s lap.

Alert: Fellspar wears a special circlet that allows him to
control this creature, which is actually a monster known as
a skeleton warrior. Fellspar commands the warrior to
attack if he knows the PCs have come to investigate the
building. If the PCs confront Fellspar without passing by
the skeleton warrior, Fellspar activates it and summons it
to do battle. For further details on Fellspar’s response to an
invasion, see Battling Fellspar, below.

Creature: Additional information on the skeleton war-
tior is found in the Appendix.

Skeleton Warrior: CR 14; hp 78; see the Tome of
Horrors by Necromancer Games.

Possessions: jeweled crown (fake jewels, 15 gp), +2 full
plate, +2 bastard sword

33. The Adventurers (EL 10)

The statues in this area look very much like a team of
explorers, with carefully carved ropes, belts, boots, and
swords. Such detail has been rendered in the sculptures
that their cloaks appear torn and their weapons nicked and
scratched. A scruffy black dog stands beside one of the
adventurer’s legs.

53

 
