* A key to the map ot maps detailing special areas_and what’

might be encountered in each one, including foes, allies, trea-
sure, traps, environmental. situations, and possibly even
descriptions of what the PCs see, hear, and experience upon
entering an area.

potential reactions

tules that might need to be referenced.

complex.
Statistics for any new. monsters you's introducing.

This preparation can amount to a lot of work. However, not every
adventure is going to require reams of notes in order to play. Not
every DM likes to prepare detailed notes ahead of time. Some have
ymore fun if they just “wing it” And sometimes a DM would like to.

ibe better prepared, but there just isnt time. Find the style of Dun: |

\geon Mastering that suits you best.

KNOWING THE RULES

If you know thar the aerial combat rules will be needed to play out
the battle in which the PCs are mounted on griffons and the gar-
goyles attack them, review those rules before playing. When rules
less often used come into play in the course of the adventure, it
slows things down if you have to reread them in the midst of a
igame. Looking over commonly used rules—such as descriptions
|for spells you know NPCs or PCs have prepared, or even the basic
jcombat rules—before a game session is. always a good idea.

When a player has a rules question, you should be the one best
able to answer the question, Mastery of the rules is one reason

wwhy the DM is sometimes called the referee,

No matter how well you know the rules, though, a player might
remember some point that didnt occur to you. Most players, quite
properly, won't lord it over you if they know.some rules better
than youdo. If someone else at the table corrects your recollection
of a. cule or adds some point you hadn't thought of, thank that

player for his help. When people cooperate to make the game.

better, everyone benefits.

KEEPING GAME BALANCE

A lot of people talk about game balance. They refer to rules they
like as “balanced,” and rules that don't seem to work as “unbal-
anced.” But what does “game balance” really mean? All game bal-
ance does is to ensure that most character choices are relatively
equal in. terms of their chances for success, A balanced game is one
in which one character doesnt dominate over the rest because of a
choice that he or she made (race, class, skill, feat, spell, and so on),
lit also reflects that the characters aren't too powerful for the
threats they fice; yet, neither are they hopelessly overmatched.
The two factors that drive game balance are discussed below.
Good DM Management: A DM who carefully watches all
portions of the game.so that nothing gets out of his or her con-
trol helps keep the game balanced. PCs and NPCs, victories and
defeats, awards and afflictions, treasure found and treasure
spent—all these aspects must be monitored to maintain balance.
No one character should become significantly greater than the
others. If this does happen, the others should have an opportu-
nity to catch up in short order. The PCs as a whole should never
get so powerful thar all the challenges become trivial to them.
Nor should they be constantly overwhelmed by what they
ymust_ face. It's no fun to always lose, and always winning gets
jboring fast, (These types of games are known as “killer dun-
,geons” and “Monty Haul games,” respectively.) When temporary.
imbalances.do occur, it's easier to fix them by altering the chal-

lenges than by changing anything about the PCs and their)
powers or equipment. No one likes to get something (a new,

NPC listings that include their statistics and notes on their}
Bookmarks in the rulebooks (or notes listing page numbers) for

Notes onthe overall story.or plot of the adventure if it is}

magic sword, for example), only to have it taken away again,
because it was too unbalancing. }

Player-DM Trust; Players should trust the DM. Trust.can be |
gained over time by consistent use of the rules, by not taking sides.
(that is, not favoring one playeratanother’s expense), and by mak-
jing it clear that you're not vindictive toward the players or the PCs.
Lf the players trust you—and through you, the game system—
they will recognize that. anything that enters the game has been.
carefully considered, If you adjudicate a situation, the players,
_should be able to trust itas a fair call and not question or second:
guess it. That way, the players can focus their attention on playing}
their characters, succeeding in the game, and having fun, trusting.
you to take care of matters of fairness and realism. They also.trust
that you will do whatever you can to make sure they are able to,
enjoy playing their characters, can potentially succeed in the |
game, and will have fun. If this degree of trust can be.achieved,
,yau will be much more free to add or change things in. your game
jwithout worrying about the players protesting or scrutinizing.
jevery decision.

Handling Unbalanced PCs

Sometimes, though, the unexpected will happen. The characters,
may defeat a villain, foiling what the villain (and you) thought was
an unstoppable escape plan, and gain a vorpal awond that you never
intended to fall into their hands. PCs entrusted to deliver an arti-
fact to its rightful owner may decide to. simply keep it instead, Or,
even more likely, the combination of some new acquisition with |
jan item or spell or power a character already has will prove unbal-)
ancing in a way you didnt foresee,

When a mistake is made, and a PC ends up too powerful, all is,
not yet lost. In fact, it's usually simple to increase the challenges;
that the character faces to keep him or her from breezing through |
encounters. However, this way of solving the problem can.be
unsatisfying, and it can mean that the encounters become too dif-
ficult for the other PCs. At the same time, as already noted, it's
never fun to lose some new aspect of your character that.turns out
to be unbalancing. From the player's point of view, it's not his or
her fault.

You have two options,

Deal with the Problem In-Game: "In-game" is a term used to
describe something that happens in the story created by the play
of the. game. For example, suppose.a. PC becomes an unbalanced
character by using a wish spell to give herself the ability to cast all
her prepared spells twice rather than once. (This should never
happen froma wish, but DMs do make mistakes.) An in-game solu-
tion might be to have an enemy cleric use a miracle to rob her of
that newfound ability. Whatever you do, try not to make it obvious
that the situation is actually just.a tool to balance the game.
Instead, make it seem just a part of the adventure. (If you don't,
indignant players will get very angry.)

Deal with the Problem Out-of-Game: “Out-of-game” means
something that takes place in the real world but has an impact on
the game itself An out-of-game solution to the problem described
in the last paragraph would be to rake the player aside between ses-
sions.and explain thar the game has become unbalanced because of
her character—things need to change, or the game may fall apart.
A reasonable person will see the value in continuing the game, and |
she'll work with you either in-game (perhaps donating a powerful
item fo. an appropriate NPC guardian) or out-of-game (perhaps by |
erasing the unbalancing power or item from her character sheet)
sand just. pretending it was never there). Be warned, however, that,
some players may dislike this amount of intrusion on your partand |
resent giving_up.a great ability or item their character “earned.” |
Even if they dont tell you to forget about it, they'll begrudge the
joss. What's worse, after an unfortunate exchange of this type, it
jwill seem obvious and contrived if you try to balance things with
an in-game solution, Nobody said DMing was easy.

 
