  
 
    
 

Magical Compulsion
Your responsibility for dictating PC actions shifts when a player
character becomes subject to.an effect (such as.a.charm person
spell or the domination ability of a vampire) that puts him or her

compelled to do the bidding of his or her controller—repre-
sented by you,

  
 
 
 
  

a fine line: For instance, if an NPC wizard has just cast charm person.
yon.a PC, what will you (as the wizard) order the character to.do?
According to the spell description in the Player's Handbook, “You
can.try to give the subject orders, but you must win an opposed
Charisma check to convince itto do anything it wouldnt ordinar-
ily do.” Who decides what the PC “wouldnt ordinarily do"—you or
the player?

The answer to that question is rarely clear-cut; at times, it may
be necessary_for you.and the player to come to an agreement on
jwhar.the character would “willingly” do in a certain situation. This.
jis.one of the times in the game when you should not make deci.
sions.on your own—confer briefly with the player of the PC, and,
assuming both of you are reasonable about the scope of what the.
character would do, it shouldn't be difficult to adjudicate the effect
of the spell.

As stipulated in an adventure you have written (or purchased),
an NPC or a monster who gains control of a character may be
motivated by goals that give you an idea of what to order the PC
to do, Sometimes, the character's response_to such an order (or
the character's opportunity to make an opposed Charisma
check) will be easy to determine; at.other times, you
may need to reach an agreement with the player 4
as discussed above.

    
 
 
    
 
 
 
 

 

   
  
  

  

Adventurersmake careful plans regarding
their mext adventure,

under the control of a monster or an NPC. Now the. character is!

Sometimes, adjudicating this sort of situation involves walking

UESCRIBING THE ACTION

   
 
 

HANDLING NPC ACTIONS

Normally, NPCs should obey all the same rules as PCs. Occasion-
ally, you might want to fudge the rules for them in one way. or
another (see. DM Cheating and Player Perceptions, below), bur in
general, NPCs should live and die—fail and succeed—by the

 

dice, just as PCs do,

Be as quick—or quicker—to decide what the NPCs do on their
turn as the players are. when deciding the PCs' actions. To keep.
things moving, be ready ahead of time with what each given NPC
will do, (Since you know ahead of time that the encounter is.
‘coming, you can prepare better than the players can.) Jot down.
NPC strategies alongside their game statistics.

Still, NPCs are people too, Dont let it be obvious to the players
that a particular character is “just an NPC,” implying that what.he
or she does isnitas smart or important as whata PC does, While that
might be true, it shouldn't seem to be true, In order to make the
game world seem real, the people who populate it should act real.

 

‘The players take all their cues from you. Lf you describe something
incompletely or poorly, the players have no chance of understand-
ing what's going on in the game world, While this is important all
the time that you're running a game, it's crucial chat you do it well
during combats.

Your descriptions of each action that occurs, the locations of all
important objects and participants, and the general environment are
all crucial to the players’ abilities to make intelligent decisions for

their characters, Thus, you need to be clearabout everything. Allow |

the players to ask questions and answer them.as concisely as you
can. Refer to each character dis-
tinetly, If you call each NRC “that
guy," the players will never know

B) what you mean, Ifa monster
p> attacks, describe its
BY, horns, bite, or claws
so that the players
understand what
the beast is
doing

   
    
   
  
   
 
  
 

 

 
 

 
  
      
