 

DETERMINING OUTCOMES

You're the arbiter of everything that happens in. the game,
Period.

Rolling Dice
Some die rolls, when scen by.a player, reveal too
much. A player who rolls to see if her character
finds a trap and sees that she has rolled very
poorly knows that the information you give her as
aresult of the roll is probably unreliable. (Nope. No!
traps down thar way, as far as you can tell”) The game is
much more interesting when the player of a character trying to
hide or move silently does not know whether the character has
succeeded,

In cases where the player shouldnt know the die result,
you can make the roll, keeping dice behind a screen or oth
erwise.our of sight. While this takes some of the fun of
rolling dice away from the players (and let's face it, that really
}is.a part. of the fun of the game), it helps you to maintain con:
trol over what the player knows and doesnt know.

Consider making checks involving the following
skills for the player where he or she can't see the
result: Bluff, Diplomacy, Hide, Listen, Move
Silently, Use Rope, Search, and Spot

Do this on a case-by-case basis. When possible,
always let players make the rolls themselves.
When it would increase suspense to keep them in
the dark, roll the dice yourself.

 

Ds, ACs, and Saving Throws

Dont tell players what they need to roll to. succeed. Dont tell
them what all the modifiers are to the roll. Instead, tell the players
that keeping track of all those things is your job, Then, when they
roll the dice, tell them whether they succeed or fail,

This is important so that players focus on what their characters
are doing, not on the numbers. Ir's also a way to hide sneaky mon-
ster tactics or the occasional DM cheat (see below).

DM CHEATING AND

PLAYER PERCEPTIONS
Terrible things can happen in the game because the dice just go
awry. Everything might be going fine, when suddenly the
players have a run of bad luck. A round later, half the party's
down for the count and the other half almost certainly cant
take on the foes that remain. If everyone dies, the campaign
might very well end then and there, and thar's bad for every-
one. Do you stand by and watch them get slaughtered, or do
you “chear” and have the foes run off, or fudge the die rolls so
jthat the PCs still miraculously win in the end? There are
really two issues at hand.

Do you cheat? The answer; The DM really can't cheat. You're
the umpire, and what you say goes. As such, it's certainly within
your rights to sway things one.way or another to keep people
happy or keep things running smoothly. It's no fun losing a long-
term character who gets run over by.a cart. A good rule of thumb
is that a character shouldnt die in.a trivial way because of some
fluke of the dice unless he or she was doing something really
stupid at the time.

However, you might not think it’s right or even fun unless you
obey the same rules the players do. Sometimes the PCs get lucky
and kill an NPC you had planned to have around fora long time.

| By.the same token, sometimes things go against the PCs, and dis.
jaster may befall them. Both the DM and the players take the bad
jwith the good. Thar's.a perfectly acceptable way to play, and if
there's a. default method of DMing, that's ir.

Justas important an issue, however, is whether the players real
ize that you bend the rules. Even if you decide that sometimes it's.

 

  
 
    
 
   
 

 

   
 
  
  

okay.to fudge a little to let the characters survive so the game.can.
continue, don't let the players in on this decision, It's important tothe.
game that they believe their characters are always in danger. Ifthe
players believe, consciously or subconsciously, that you'll never let
bad things happen to their characters, they'll change the way they
act. With no element of ris! ‘tory will seem less sweet. And if
thereafter something bad does happen to a character, thar player
amay believe you're out. get him if he feels you saved other play-
ers when their characters were in trouble.

       

 

When Bad Things Happen to Good Characters
Characters suffer sethacks, lose magic items, take ability score
penalties, lose levels, and die (sometimes repeatedly),..Unfor-
tunate events are part of the game, almost.as much as suc
cess, gaining levels, earning treasure, and attaining.
greatness. But players don't always take it well when
mething bad happens to their characters
Remind players that sometimes bad things happen
hallenges are what the game’ all about. Point our that
2 setback can be turned into an opportunity to succeed
later. If a character dies, encourage the other players (per-
haps subtly) to have their characters get the dead.character raised
or resurrected. If doing this is not an option, reassure the player of
the dead character that there are lots of opportunities in new char
acter types she hasnt yet tried. A bard somewhere will pen a ballad
abour the fallen character's heroic demise even as the group wel-
comes her new PC. The game goes on.
Its rare but possible that an entire party can be wiped out.
In such a case, don’ let this catastrophe end the whole
game, NPC adventurers might find the PCs and have.
them raised or resurrected, putting the PCs deeply in
their debr (an adventure hook if ever there was.
one). The players can create a temporary party for
the purpose of retrieving the bodies of the fallen
adventurers for raising or at least honorable burial
Or, everyone can roll up new characters and start
anew. Even thar's not really so bad—in fact, it's an opportunity for
a dramatic change of pace

ENDING A SESSION
Try not to end a game session in the middle of an encounter. Leav-
ing everything hanging in this way is aterrible note to end on. It's
difficult to keep track of information such as initiative order,
spell durations, and other round-by-round details
berween sessions. The only exception to this guideline is
when you purposely end a session with a cliffhanger. A
cliffhanger ending is one in which the story pauses just as
something monumental happens or some surprising turn of
events occurs. The purpose is.to keep players intrigued and
excited until the next session.

If someone was missing from asession and you had her charac
ter leave the party forasvhile, make sure that there's a way to work
her character back in when she returns, Sometimes a cliffhanger
can serve this purpose—the PC comes racing into the thick of
things like the cavalry to help her beleaguered friends,

Allow some time (a few minutes will do) at the end of play.to.
have everyone discuss the events of the session. Listen_to the:
reactions so you can learn more of what they like and dont like.
Reinforce what you thought were good decisions and smart .ac
tions.on their parts (unless such information gives too much away.
for the adventure). Always end the session_on a positive note.

You may sant to award experience points at the end of each ses-
sion, or you might wait until the end of each adventure. That's up|
to you. However, the standard procedure is to give them out at the
end of each session, so players whose characters go up a level have
time to choose new spells, buy skills, and take care of other details
related to level advancement

 

 

 
  
  
 
 

  
  
 
  

 

   
  
   
   
 
    
    
   
     
 

 

 

 

     

 
