 
    
     
   

 
 

hecets te record level
ry ranted by pressing fe

reteate on the

 

 

Gave

Suahal
Five te start,

te half pack ree:

his chapter covers the rules you need to
& Dadcoks game, from the momenprhethar
the dungeon to the end of the session; when they tally up
theit experience points

 
 

ers enter

   

   

 

 

The Player’: Handbook covers tactical ind overland movement for
Small and Medium creattites eithet traveling across the ground, or
using skills sich as Climb: Jamp, and Swim. This section of the rules
expands.on that information to-include creatures smaller than
Qo). Small and larger than Medium and also discusses flying movement

MOVEMENT AND, THE-GRID

While this is 4 game of imagination ual aids can
help everyone imagine the same thing, avoid confusion, and
enhance the entire game play experience

In a round-by-round.simulation, particularly
using miniatures, movement will sometimes feel
character runs actoss a room so large thar it takes him 2 rounds to
do so, it might gem as though he runs halfway; stops, and then
ftins the rest of the way a little later. Although there's no way to
avoid representing movement in a Start-stop-start-stop fashion,
try (0 keep in mind—and. emphasize to the players—that all
movement during an encounter is actually fluid and continuous

  

~

 
  

   

props and

 

  
 

eh you are
hoppy. If @

 

 

 

SON Movement and Position

Wass... Few characters in a fight arc likely to stand still for long. Enemies
appear and charge the party; the adventurets reply, advancing to
take on new foes afterthey down their first opponents, Wizards
he fight, looking for the best place to use their m

 

 

circle

Standard:S

Diagona} Movement

 

 

  
   
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
 
 
   

   
 

rogits quietly Skirt rhé fracas, secking astraggler or an
unwargiopponent to strike with 2 sneak attack, With all this
tactical Maneuvering going on, some way fo represent ch
acter Jocatibn within-a defined Sealecan really aidthe game

Handle movementaind position by using miniature
ures.on grid. Miniatures show whereafigureds in rela
non to others, and the grid makes it cléar how far the char
acters and monsters can move

 

 

 

 

 

t-inch square = 5 feet
30mm figure = human-size creature

 

The standard nit for tactical maps is the 5-foor square
This unit is useful for miniatures and for drawing dun
geon maps, which are usually cre: 1

Ip.a fight, cach Small or Med:
pies a Single 5-foot square. Larger creatures take up
és, and several smallér creatures fit in a
See Table 84; Creature Size and Scale, page
he Player's Handbook.

  
 

OML adLdVHO

    

 

‘Whenjmoving diagonally on a grid, the first square
moved Counts as § feet of movement, but the
second diagonal move counts as 10 feet. This pattern of
§ feet and then 10 feet continues as long as the character
moves diagonally, ¢ven af somne straight movement
through squares separates the diagonal moves: For
eaample, a character moves 1 square diagonally

 

  
 
