 

Many racial abilities, class features, spells, and magic items offer
bonuses on attack rolls, damage rolls, saving throws, Armor Class,
ability scores, or skill checks. These bonuses are classified by type.
and each type is briefly.described below, i

Bonuses of different types always stack. So a cloak of resistance +1)

\(adds a resistance bonus on saving throws).works with a paladin’s,
bonus on saving throws from the divine grace class feature. Iden-
tical types of bonuses do not stack,.so.a.+3 longsword (+3 enhance-,
ment bonus for a +3 to attack, +3.t0. damage) would not be affected |
by a.magic weapon spell that grants.a. weapon a +1 enhancement

bonus on attack and damage rolls,

Different named bonus types all stack, but usually a named
bonus does nor stack with another bonus of the same name,
except for dodge bonuses and some circumstance bonuses.

| Alchemical: An alchemical bonus represents the benefit from

jachemical compound, usually one ingested prior to receiving the,

,bonus. Antitoxin, for example, provides a +5 alchemical bonus on).
Fortitude saving throws against poison. }

Armor: This is the bonus that nonmagical armor gives a char-)
acter. A spell that gives an armor bonus typically creates an invis-
ible, tangible field of force around the affected character.

Circumstance: This is a bonus or penalty based on situational
factors, which may apply either to a check or the DC for that
check. Circumstance modifiers stack with each other, unless they

\arise from essentially the same circumstance.

Competence: When a character has a.competence bonus, he
actually gets better at what he's doing. such as with the guidance
spell

Deflection: A deflection bonus increases a.character’s AC by
making attacks veer off, such as with the shield of faith spell

Dodge: A dodge bonus enhances a character's ability to get out
of the way quickly, Dodge bonuses do stack with other dodge
bonuses, Spells and magic items occasionally grant dodge bonuses.

Enhancement: An enhancement bonus represents an increase
in the strength or effectiveness of a character's armor or- weapon,
as with the magic vestment and magic weapon spells, ora general,
bonus to an ability score, such as with the cat's grace spell.

Inherent: An inherent bonus is a bonus to an abiliry score that}
results from powerful magic, such as.a wish spell. A characteris,
limited to a total inherent bonus of +5 to any ability score.

Insight: An insight bonus makes a character better at what hes
doing because he has an almost precognitive knowledge of factors
pertinent to.the activity, as with the true strike spell.

Luck: A luck bonus is a. general bonus that represents good for-
tune, such as from the divine favor spell.

Morale: A morale bonus represents the effects of greater hope,
courage, and determination, such as from the bless spell

Natural Armor: A natural armor bonus is the type of bonus
that many monsters get because of their tough or scaly hides. An

BEHIND THE CURTAIN: STACKING BONUSES
Keeping track of the different types of bonuses a character gets from
different sources may seem like a real bother, There are good reasons
to do this, however,

Balance: The main reason to keep track of what stacks and what
doesn't stack is to keep total bonuses from getting out of hand. If a
character wears a belt of giant Strength, it’s unbalancing to allow the
cleric to cast bull's strength on her as well and allow both bonuses to
add up. Likewise, a character with mage armor, magic plate armor, a
‘ing of protection, and a divine favor spell would be unbalanced if all his
bonuses were cumulative. Stacking restrictions keep the game within
manageable limits, while still allowing characters to benefit from

 

LINE OF SIGHT

enhancement to natural armor bonus bestowed by a spell (such as,
harkskin) indicates that the subject's skin has become tougher.|

Profane: A profane bonus represents the power of evil, such as |

granted by the desecnate spell.

Racial: Creatures gain_racial bonuses—usually to. skill
ichecks—based on the kind of creature they are. Eagles receive a
+8 racial bonus on Spot checks, for example.

Resistance: A resistance bonus is a general bonus against

magic or harm. Resistance bonuses almost always affect saving,
throws. =

Sacred: The opposite of a profane bonus, a sacred bonus relates }

to the power of good, such as granted by the consecrate spell.

Shield: Much like an armor bonus, a shield bonus.to AC repre-

sents the protection a nonmagical shield affords. A spell that gives.
a shield bonus usually represents an invisible, tangible shield of |
force that moves to protect the character.

Size: When a character gets bigger (such as through the effect
Jofan enlarge person spell), his Strength increases (as might his Con-
stitution). That's a size bonus. +

‘The brave party.of adventurers smashes through the wooden door
and into an ambush of bloodthirsty hobgoblins with spears and
rusted blades. The trio of knights charges through the forest on
their gallant mounts, their lances plunging into the scaly flesh of
the horrible hydra thar waits near the river's edge. The dragon|
takes to the air and chases the elf lord and his retinue, jaws snap-
ping behind them as they run in terror J

Combat is a big part.of what makes the D&D_game_exciting.,
There are few better ways to test your mettle against your foes,
than in pitched battle, Your most important job as DM is running.
combats—making things move quickly and smoothly, and adjudi-
cating what happens during each round of the action.

Line of sight establishes whether a particular character can see
something else represented on the grid, When using a grid, draw
an imaginary line (or use.a.ruler or apiece of string) from the
square the character is in.to the object in question. If nothing
blocks this line, the character has line of sight (and can thus see it
to casta spell on it, rarget itwith a bow, and so forth), If the object
in question is actually another creature, measure line of sight
from the square the character is in.to.the square that the creature
occupies. If a character can see a portion of a large creature that
occupies more than one square, she can target that creature for a
spell or any other attack

If line.of sight is completely blocked, a character can't cast spells
or use ranged weapons against the target. If it's partially blocked,
such as by the corner of a building, spells work normally but the
target's AC increases due to the cover,

    

multiple magic items. For instance, note that some of the items from
the previous example—the magic plate armor, the ring, and the divine
favor spell, for example—could work together, because they provide
bonuses of different types.

Consistency and Logic: The system of bonus types provides a way to
make sense out of what can work together and what can't. At some
point, when adding types of protection together, a reasonable player
realizes that some protections are just redundant. This system logically
portrays how it all makes sense together.

Encouraging Good Play: Categorizing bonuses by type allows play-
ers to put together suites of effects that do work in conjunction in a
consistent manner—encouraging smart play rather than pile-it-on play.

 

   

 
