 

STARTING AN ENCOUNTER dard action before initiative is rolled, while the w:

An encounter can begin in one of three situations, or party does nothing and is caught flat-footed. Dui
je becomes aware of the other and thus can act first the unaware character or party gains no Dexterity bonus to AC.
* Both sides become aware 0 er this action, both sides make initiative checks to detern
* Some, but not all, creatures on one or the order in which the participants act.

 

aware

 

aracter,

   

 
   
  
  
   

ng this time

   

 

* One si

   

   

ch other at the same time.

 

  
 

   
  

both sides become aware. of Other times, the aware. side has a few rounds to prepare. (If its

other side members see the other side off in the distance, heading their way

When you decide thar itis for example.) You should track time in rounds atti
possible for either side to determine how m
become aware of the aware cha:
other, use Spot checks,
Liste
ranges, and soon
to. dete:
which of
three above
cases
comes. into play
Although it's good
to give characters

 

  
 

point.to

h the

    
    
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
 

 

 

cters.can accom,
plish. Once the.two sides come
nto contact, the aware characters
can take a standard action while the
unaware characters do nothing. Keep in
mind_that_if
the aware char
ters.alert the

 

 

achecks, sight

   

  

  

 

 

some chance to

dete coming

   

 

ultimately it's you before actual contact is

 

encountet unaware sid

then both sid:

 

who decides when the first ad are_tre
aware.

Example (Sudden Awareness): A kobold.
sorcerer with darkvision sees a party
of adventurers coming down .a long |
hallway. He can see the adventurers,
light, bur they can't
him because he's out of the,
ion, The
ard a
and casts lightning bolt
party. Caught unawar

party can

    

   

round begins and where e
n itdoes,

Side Aware First: In
you determine
how much time the aware
s. before the unaw
t. Sometimes, the
unaware side has no time
do anything before the aware

 

   
  

 

  

since they've go

 

se

    

    

sorcerer gets a sta on.

 

 

ce to interact
party
an-

side gets.a ct
If so, the character
that is aware gets t

     

 

take a

   

 

  

ARIANT: ROLL INITIATIVE EACH ROUN affected). The monk runs forward and stuns the wizard, a condition
ery that lasts until the monk's next action. In the next round, the monk
t misses. Now tt

ecause he lost initiative in this round, and acted

   

ome players find combat more fun if they get to roll initiative
round rather than rolling once at the beginning of the encounter.

Rather than determining a sequence of actions for each round at the

   

e wizard casts

      

s initiative again, and attacks b
other spell—but
of an encounter, the players and DM reroll for all combat- _ after the monk's action
rmining a different sequence at the start of each new round. him
The goal is to give the combat a feeling of shift

Ultimately, this variant rule doesn’t change

that it slows down play, because a new sequence of activity will need you a cumulative -2 pen

    

that he was stunned hardly hindered

   

beginnin

 

 

ants, det

 

 

f you roll initiative each round, taking a readied action later in the

 

9g variabil

   

   

nings much. You'll find — same round or delaying an action until later in the same round gi

 

e rolls. (The firs!

 

ty on later init

   

        

to be determined each round—more die rolling, more calculation do this causes a -2 pen you take a readied action later in the
more organizing time. It doesn't change spell durations, or how vari- same round or delay an action until later in the same round agair

   

mbat, the penalty becomes —4, and so on.) Taking
the next round
round,

normally use a single set of initiative rolls for the whole

ous combat actions work, Effects that last until the character's next — during the current
action still operate that way. The di
someone to take an action at the end of one round (s
attack) thi
well in the next round so that he goes first and the penalty has no combat, some turn of events could make it worthwhile to reroll initia

   
    

nce is that it's possible for a readied

 

je

 

ction in the next round or delaying ui

 

     

ch asa charge carries no penalty, but you get no other action th

 

 

t puts him at a penalty until his next action, and then to roll Even if yo

 

 

effect. This means that som

  

imes it can be beneficial to roll low for __ tive. For example, the PCs are fighting a drow wizard using greater invis

 

initiative in a round. ty. It's a climactic encounter with the survival of the party hinging

 

And consider this case: A wizard wants to cast a spell unhindered by on it. The drow, on his turn, walks within 30 feet of Jozan, who has cast
the oncoming monk who rushes toward him. He knows that if the invisibility purge. Suddenly, the drow is
would be able to attack the newly
there's no good reason to
II get on

 

ible. Under normal initiative

  

   

monk reaches him, it will be difficult to cast a spell without drawing an rules, whoever happens to ai
himself that his actions visible drow. Aside from gan
ve in this round (you need to let that character act first. Addit
keep this sort of change in approach in mind if you use this variant). before th s to act again, Instead of following th
Meanwhile, the monk wants to reach the wizard and use her stunning order, you can call for everyone—the drow included—to roll ini
attack to keep him from casting spells. They roll |nitiative, and the again to see how fast each character reacts to the new condition (the

(but the monk saves and isn't drow becoming visible)

 

attack of opportunity from her. He thinks

 

     

he wins initi umn

 

depend on whethi

   

   

previous

 

drow

 

 

ative

     

 

 

wizard wins, casting a spell on the mon!

 
