Tapie 2-5: Dirricucty Class EXAMPLES

 

DC __ Example Roll (Key Ability) Who Could Do It
-10 Hear the sounds of a pitched battle Listen (Wis) A commoner on the other side of a stone wall
0 ____ Track ten hill giants across a muddy field Search (Int) The village fool hustling at full speed at night
5 Climb a knotted rope Climb (Str) An average human carrying a 75-pound pack
5 Hear people talking on the other side of a door Listen (Wis) An absent-minded sage being distracted by allies
10 Runor charge down steep stairs Balance (Dex) A Istlevel rogue
10 Follow tracks of fifteen orcs across firm ground Search (Int) A Ist-level commoner
10 Ransack a chest full of junk to find a map Search (Int) A Ist-level commoner
10 __Tiea firm knot Use Rope (Dex) A }st-level commoner
10 Find out the current gossip Gather Information (Cha) A Tst-level commoner
11'__ Avoid being tripped by a wolf — {Str or Dex) A Ist-level commoner
12 Assess the value of a silver necklace Appraise (Int) A lstdevel rogue
13° __ Resist the command spell Will save (Wis) A \st-level wizard or a low-level fighter
13 Bash open simple wooden door — (Str) A fighter
15 Make a dying friend stable Heal (Wis) A Istlevel cleric
15 Make indifferent people friendly Diplomacy (Cha) A Ist-evel paladin
15 Jump 10 feet (with a running start) Jump (Str) A Ist-level fighter
15 Tumble pasta foe Tumble (Dex) A low-level monk
15' Get a minor lie past a canny guard Bluff (Cha) A Ist-level rogue
16 identify a Ist-level spell as it is being cast Spelicraft (Int) Awwizard (but not anyone untrained In spells)
177 _ Resist a 10th-level vampire’s dominating gaze Will save (Wis) A low-level monk or a high-level fighter
18 Bash open a strong wooden door — (Str) ‘An enraged half-ore barbarian
18 Cast fireball while being shot with an arrow Concentration (Con) A low-level wizard
20 Notice a typical secret door Search (Int) A smart, 1st-level half-elf rogue
20___Notice a scrying sensor — (Int) A low-level wizard with Int 12 or higher
20 Notice an invisible creature moving nearby Spot (Wis) A low-level ranger
20___Pick a very simple lock Open Lock (Dex) A dexterous, 1st-level halfling rogue (but not anyone
untrained at picking locks)
20 Find out what sorts of crimes the baron’s Gather Information (Cha) A low-level bard
daughter has gotten away with
20 __ Avoid falling into a pit trap Reflex save (Dex) A mid-level rogue or a high-level paladin
20 Walk a tightrope Balance (Dex) A low-level rogue
21 Raise a dire wolf cub Handle Animal (Cha) A mid-level ranger
21" Sneak quietly past a hellcat 50 feet away Move Silently (Dex) A low-level rogue
22' Escape from an owlbear's clutches Escape Artist (Dex) A low-level rogue
23’ Grab a guard’s spear and wrest it out of his hands —- Melee attack (Str) A mid-level fighter
24 Resist the wail of the banshee spell Fortitude save (Con) A high-level fighter
24% Shoot an armored guard through an arrow stit Ranged attack (Dex) A high-level fighter
25 Notice that something's wrang with a friend Sense Motive (Wis) A mid-level rogue
who's under a vampire's control
25 Persuade the dragon that has captured you Diplomacy (Cha) A high-level bard
that it would be a good idea to let you go
25 _ Find out from-a city’s inhabitants who the Gather Information (Cha) A high-level bard.
power behind the throne Is
26 jump over an ore’s head (with a running start) Jump (Str) A 20th-level ranger wearing light armor or a mid-level
barbarian wearing light armor (who really only needs
a 22 because his speed is higher)
28___ Disable a glyph of warding Disable Device (Int) A high-level rogue (but not anyone of another class)
30 Notice a well-hidden secret door Search (Int) A high-level rogue
28____Bash open an iron door — (Str) A fire giant
23° Calma hostile owlbear Wild empathy (Cha) A high-level druid (and only a druid o ranger)
30 Hurriedly climb a slick brick wall Climb (Str) A high-level barbarian
30 Read a letter written in ancient Draconic Decipher Script (int) A high-level wizard
30 Pick a good lock Open Lock (Dex). A high-level rogue
43 Track a goblin that passed over hard rocks Survival (Wis) A 20th-level ranger who has maxed out his Survival
a week ago, and it snowed yesterday skill and has been fighting goblinoids as his
favored enemy since 1st level
1 This number is actually the average roll on the opponent's opposed but sometimes a saving throw, an ability check, or even.an_attack |
check rather than a fixed number. roll, The.ability that modifies the roll is in parentheses. A. “—" inthis)
2. Actual DC may be highet or lower depending on the caster.or ability column.means that the.check is an ability check and.no skill ranks.
} user. base save bonuses,.or base attack bonuses apply.
3 This is the target's adjusted Armor Class. Who Could Do It: An example of a character that would have about
DC: The number a character needs to roll to succeed. 5026 chance to succeed, When this entry names a character by class,
Example: An example of a task with that DC. 4 \_it.assumes that the character has the skill in question. (Other

Roll (Key Ability): The roll the character makes, usually a skill check, _. characters. might have a better or worse chance to succeed.)

 
