 

Key Concept 1: Checks are used to accomplish something,
while saves are used to avoid something.

Key Concept 2: Check modifiers don't take into account
character level or class Jevel. Save bonuses always do. If a task
seems like it should be easier fora high-level character, use a}
saving throw, If it seems like the task should be equally difficult,
for any two characters with the same score in the relevant)

\ability, use a check. For example, opening a door is merely.a}
[reflection of strength, not experience. Thus, it's a Strength}
scheck, The middle ground is.a skill check, such as a Balance}
icheck to avoid falling while running over broken ground. A|
\Balance check takes level into account only if the character has

-tanks in the skill

DIFFICULTY CLASSES

Assigning DCs is your job, but usually the rules are straightfor-
.ward. The. game has.a standard rule for the DC of a saving throw.
jagainst.a spell, and creatures and magic items with abilities thar{
(force others to make saves always have that saving throw clearly,
[detailed (or else they function just like spells, and you use the)
spell rule), The general rules are as follows.

Spells: 10 + spell level + caster’s ability modifier,

Monster Abilities: 10 + 1/2 monster's Hit Dice + monster's
ability modifier.

Miscellaneous; 10 to 20. Use 15 as. a default.

As with checks, saving throw die rolls can be modified, or the
DC can be modified. See The DM's Best Friend, page 30.

 

\At the middle range of levels (6th through 11th), most charac-
ters cast spells, and they all use magic items, many of which pro-
duce strange effects. Handling spells and effects well is often

ithe difference between a good game and a really good one.

   

 

DESCRIBING SPELL EFFECTS ,
Magic is flashy. When characters cast spells or use magic items,
you should describe what the spell looks, sounds, smells, or feels
like as well as its game effects. 4

A magic missile could be a dagger-shaped burst of energy that
iflies through the air. Iralso.could be a fistlike creation of force
ithat bashes into its target or the sudden appearance of a

demonic head that spits.a blast of energy. When someone.
becomes invisible, he or she fades away. A summoned fiend,
appears with a flash of blood-red energy and. smell of brim-|
stone, Other spells have more obvious visual effects, A firebsll)
and a lightning bolt, for example, appear pretty much the way.
they are described in the Player's Handbook. For dramatic flair,
however, you could describe the lightning bolt as being a thin.arc,
of blue lightning and the fireball as a blast of green fire with red.
twinkling bursts within it.

You can let players describe the spells thar their characters
Teast. Dont, however, allow a player to use an original description
jthat.makes a spell seem more powerful than it is. A fireball spell.
[that creates an illusion of a dragon breathing flames goes too far.

Spells without obvious visual effects can be described as well.

Since a target who makes his saving throw.against.a spell knows
that something happened .to him, you could describe a.charm
spell or a compulsion spell.as a cold claw threatening to enclose
his mind that he manages to shake off. (If the spell worked, the
target would not be.aware of such an effect, for his mind would
not be entirely his own.) 4
Sound can bea powerful descriptive force. You could say thatal,
lightning bolt is accompanied by a clap of thunder. A cone of cold)
sounds like a rush of wind followed by a tinkling of crystalline ice.

HANDLING DIVINATIONS |
Spells such as augur, divination, and legend lore require you to come
up with information on the spot. Two problems can arise when
dealing with divinations such as these.

 

 

VARIANT: CRITICAL SUCCESS OR FAILURE
fa player rolls a natural (unmodified) 20 on a check, allow him or her
to make another check. If the second check is successful, the charac-
ter has achieved a critical success with the use of that skill or ability,
and something particularly good happens. Likewise, if a player rolls a
natural 1, he rolls again. if the second check Is a failure, the character
has achieved a critical failure (made a critical blunder), and something
teally bad happens.

It’s up to you to determine the specific result of a critical success or
failure. Some examples follow.

Gritical Successes

On a Climb check or Swim check, the character moves twice as far
as she would on a normal success.

When using Diplomacy, the character makes a good, trusted friend
for long-term play.

When using a Knowledge skill, the character comes to an important
conclusion related to the task at hand,

When using Search, the character discovers something that she
otherwise never could have found (if anything is present to be found).

When using Survival to track, the character determines some amaz-
ing minutiae about her prey. For instance, she realizes that the three
subjects she’s tracking aren't happy with one another because they
‘occasionally stop and apparently argue, based on where they stand in
relation to each other.

When using Heal to give first aid, the character heals 1 point of
damage dealt to the subject.

Critical Failures

When using a Perform skill, the character displeases his audience so
greatly that they wish to do him harm,

On a Climb check, the character falls so badly that he takes an
additional 1d6 points of damage, or he falls and tears away a few
good handholds, making it a more difficult climb (+5 to the DC) on
the next try.

When using Disguise, the character not only doesn't look like what
he intended, but actually looks like something offensive or hateful to
the viewers,

When using Escape Artist, the character actually gets himself more
entangled or pinned, adding +5 to the DC on the next try.

On a Use Rope check, the character breaks the rope.

When using Open Lock, the character breaks off his pick in the lock,
making it impossible to open.

When using any kind of tool, the character destroys the tool.

Sometimes, there's nothing more that can be achieved with a critical
success, or there's nothing worse than a normal failure. In such a case,
ignore this variant rule

You should also ignore this variant whenever a character takes 10 or
takes 20. It’s not possible to achieve a critical success when all you're
trying to do is complete a task without worrying about completing it as
well as possible, and it's not possible to get a critical failure if you're
not under pressure when you're making the check

 

 
