 

Maximum DAMAGE FOR ARCANE SPELLS

Arcane Max Damage Max Damage
Spell Level {Single Target) (Multiple Targets)
Ist Sdice -
2nd 10 dice Sdice +
3rd Wdice 10 dice 4
4th 1S dice 10 dice +
Sth ISdice 15 dice 4
6th 20 dice 18 dice 4
. 7th 20 dice 20 dice
}_8th 25 dice 20 dice
oe) 25 dice 25 dice
Maximum Damace For DiviNe SpELts
Divine Max Damage Max Damage
Spell Level (Single Target) (Multiple Targets)
Vst ldie _
2nd 5 dice 1 die
» 3d 10 dice Sdice
4th 10 dice 10 dice
Sth 1S dice WO dice
6th 15 dice 15 dice
7th 20 dice 15 dice
8th 20 dice 20 dice
9th 25 dice 20 dice

The damage cap depends on whether a spell affects a single
lrarget or. multiple targets. A single-target spell affects only one
icrearure or has its total damage divided among several creatures.
|For example, a. magic missile spell can deliver 5 dice of damage to
sone target. If ir strikes more than one target, its damage dice must
[be divided among them. A multiple-target spell deals full damage
;to.two or more creatures simultaneously, For example, a fireball
\damages everything within its 20-foot spread,

Mialee and Tordek stand within the treasure chamber, surveying.
the riches before them. To get there, they slew three trolls, by-|
passed several devious traps, and solved the riddle of the golden |
golem to stop it from crushing them. Now they are not only)
richer, but from their experiences they have grown in knowledge

and power, b

 

 

Experience points are a measure of accomplishment. They rep-
resent training and learning by doing, and they illustrate the fact |
that, in fantasy, the more experienced a character is, the more pow-|
er he or she possesses, Experience points allow 2 character to gain |

jlevels. Gaining levels heightens the fun and excitement.

| Experience points can be spent by spellcasters to power some of
their most potent spells, Experience points also represent the per-
sonal puissance that_acharacter must imbue an object with in
order to create a magic item,

In addition to experience, characters also earn treasure.on their,
ladventures. They find gold and other valuables that allow them to |
buy bigger and better equipment, and they find magic items that
give them new and better abilities.

EXPERIENCE AWARDS |
When the party defeats monsters, you award the characters expe-
rience points (XP), The more dangerous the monsters, compared
sto. the party's level, the more XP the characters earn. The PCs split
jthe XP between themselves, and each character increases in level.
jas his or her personal XP total increases,

You need to calculate XP awards during the course of an. adven-
ture, whether it's one you wrote or one you purchased, You may
wish to award_experience points at the end of a session to. enable
players to advance their characters in level if they have enough
experience points. Alternatively, you may.wish.to give out XP
awards at the beginning of the game session following the one in
which the characters earned it. This gives you time between ses-,
sions to use these rules and determine the experience award, ,

As part of determining experience point awards, you need to
break the game down into encounters and then break the encoun-
ters down into parts, Lf you're using monsters from the Monster,
Manual, some of the work has already been done for you, Each |
monster in that book has a Challenge Rating (CR) that, when
compared to party level, translates directly into an XP award.

A Challenge Rating is a measure of how easy or difficult a mon-
ster or trup is to overcome. Challenge Ratings are used in Chapter
3: Adventures to determine Encounter Levels (EL), which in turn
indicate how difficult an encounter (often involving multiple
monsters) is to overcome, A monster is usually overcome by defeat-
ing it in battle, a trap by being disarmed, and so forth.

You must decide when a challenge has been overcome. Usually,
this is simple to do. Did the PCs defeat the enemy in battle? Then
they met the challenge and earned experience points. Other

 

 

VARIANT; SPELL ROLL
Substitute this variant for the standard method of determining saving
throw DCs for spells. Every time a character casts a spell that requires
a target to make a saving throw, the caster rolls 1420 and adds the spell
level and the appropriate ability modifier. The result is the DC for the
saving throw, Roll once even for a spell that affects many creatures.
This variant introduces a great deal more randomness into spell-
casting—sometimes low-level spells cast by mediocre casters will
have high DCs, and sometimes high-level spells cast by powerful
casters are easy to resist. It downplays the level of the spell and the
ability modifier. As with variant combat rules, any change that
increases chance in a battle favors the underdog, and that’s usually
the.enemy of the PCs.

VARIANT: POWER COMPONENTS

The horn of the rare red minotaur can be combined with a potent
mixture of herbs that can aid in restoring wholeness to the afflicted. So
potent is the energy contained in the concoction that a cleric who uses
it while casting greater restoration (and uses it up) need not devote any
personal power (XP) in order to cast the spell

This variant allows for special rare ingredients (“power compo-
nents”) to be added to material spell components in place of an XP
component. You're free to allow this on a case-by-case basis. Pethaps
these components exist only for certain spells. They're certainly rare,
and certainly expensive—ten to twenty times the XP component in
gold pieces is a good baseline price. Further, characters may need to
consult sages or cast divinations in order to find out what the proper
Ingredients are.

Consider not allowing characters to buy power components—
instead, make them the object of an adventure. The hunt for the red
minotaur can be a challenging and entertaining adventure by itself, but
if the defeat of the minotaur is the first step toward the goal of bring-
ing back a fallen comrade, the scenario takes on a larger importance.

In the same way, special ingredients can substitute for the XP that a
character otherwise has to spend to create magic items.

This variant works ifit makes powerful magic more colorful and ifit
fits the way you want to portray magic in your campaign. It fails if it
means that the only hard control on casting powerful spells and creat-
ing magic items (the XP component) slips away, so that such actions
become commonplace.

 

 
