 

your 10th-level party since it caused them to waste some major
spells, so you give them half the XP an EL 3 encounter would have
earned them, or 125 XP. Or you might judge that a large quantity
of CR 1 monsters is indeed an appropriate challenge for a 10th-
level party because the group had lost all their equipment before.
the fight started,

STORY AWARDS
[The PCs have rescued the constable’s son from the troll lair. They,
eave the lair and stop their current quest so they can return the)
tyoung boy to his home and parents. Do they get experience points,
Hor this?

Some DMs want the answer to be “Of course they do.” To
accomplish this, you need to set up a system in which you can
award XP for accomplishing goals and for actions and encounters
that don't involve combat.

Sometimes you may want.to estimate experience point awards,
}for actions that normally don't result in an XP award under the}

}Standard system. These are called story awards, and they should)
Lonly be used by an experienced DM.

CRs for Noncombat Encounters
You could award experience points for solving a puzzle, learning a
secret, convincing an NPC to help, or escaping from a powerful
foe. Mysteries, puzzles, and roleplaying encounters (such as nego-
tiations) can be assigned Challenge Ratings, but these sorts of
jawards require more ad hoc ruling on the DM's part.

Challenge Ratings for noncombat encounters.are even more of
avariable than traps. A roleplaying encounter should only be con-
|sidered a challenge ar all if there's some risk involved and success
or failure really matters. For example, the PCs encounter an NPC
\wwho knows the secret password to get into.a magical prison that

tholds their companion. The PCs must get the information out of
her—if they don't, their friend remains trapped forever, In an-
other instance, the characters must cross.a raging river by wading,
swimming, or climbing across a rope. If they fail, they.cant get to.
where the magic gem lies, and if they fail spectacularly, they are.
washed away down the river.

You might see such situations as having a Challenge Rating.
equal to the level of the party, Simple puzzles and minor encoun-|
ters should have a CR lower than the party's level, ifthey are worth,
an award at all. They should never have a CR higher than the
party's level. As'a rule, you probably don't want to hand out a lot of
experience for these kinds of encounters unless you intentionally
want to run.a low-combat game.

In the end, this kind of story award feels pretty much like a
standard award. Don't ever feel obligated to give out XP for an en-

,counter that you dont feel was much of a.challenge. Remember
ithat the key word in “experience award” is award. The PCs should
_have to do something impressive to get an award.

 

Mission Goals
Often an adventure has a mission or a goal that pulls the PCs into|
the action. Should the PCs accomplish their goal, they may. getal.
story. award. No Challenge Ratings are involved here: The XP]
{award is entirely up to you.

Such rewards should be fairly large—large enough to seem sig-
4nificant when compared to the standard awards earned along the
way toward achieving the mission goal The mission award should
be more than the XP for any single encounter on the mission, but
,not more than all standard awards for encounters for the mission,
[put together (see Story Awards and Standard Awards, below),|
Potentially, you could give out only story awards and no standard
awards, In this nonstandard game, the mission award would be the

main contributor to the PCs' experience point rorals.

Irs possible that in a single adventure a party.can have multiple |
goals. Sometimes the goals are all known at the outset; Unchain

{the gold dragon, destroy or imprison the two black dragons, and

find the lost staff of healing. Sometimes the next goal is discovered

awhen the first one is accomplished: Now that the illithid is dead,

{find the people who were under its mental control and bring them
back to town.

Some players will want to set up personal goals for their char-
acters. Perhaps the PC paladin holds a grudge against the night
hag from when they encountered her before. Although not crit-
ical to the adventure at hand, it becomes his personal goal to
avenge the wrongs she committed by destroying her, Or,
another character wants to find the magic item that ywill enable,

jher to return.to her home village and stop the plague. These are,

worthy goals, and the individual character who achieves them!
should ger a special award, “I want to get more powerful’ is not,
an individual goal, since that's what just abour everyone wants,
to accomplish.

Remember, A goal that's easy to accomplish is worth little or no|
award. Likewise, goals that merely reflect standard awards (such as
“Kill all the monsters in this cavern complex”) should be treated as
standard awards.

Roleplaying Awards

A player who enjoys playing a role well may sometimes make
decisions that fit his or her.character but don't necessarily lead to
the most favorable outcome for that character. Good roleplayers
might perform some deeds that seem particularly fitting for
their characters. Someone playing a bard might compose a short
poem about events in. the campaign. A smart-aleck sorcerer
might crack an in-game joke that sends the other players to the
floor laughing. Another player might have his character fall in
love with an NPC and then devote some portion of his time to
playing.out that love affair Such roleplaying should be
rewarded, since it enhances the game, (If it doesn't enhance the
game, dont give an award.)

VARIANT: FASTER OR SLOWER EXPERIENCE

You control the pace of character progress, and the easiest way to do
that is through experience point awards, Obviously, if you want the
characters to progress faster, simply make every award 10%, 20%, or
even 5056 larger. If you want characters to progress more slowly, give
awards that are some suitable fraction of the original award.

When modifying awards in this way, keep track of the amount of
change you impose on the PCs’ progress. You need to balance this with
the pace of treasure awarded. For example, if you increase the amount
of experience earned by the characters by 20% across the board, trea-
sure also needs to increase by 2036, or else the PCs end up poor and
underequipped for their level

Modifying Challenge Ratings
The other way to modify character progress is to modify the Challenge
Ratings of monsters encountered, If you increase the CRs, you increase
the experience awards and speed up advancement.

Of course, whether or not you want to change character progress,
you may decide to modify various Challenge Ratings. If you think that
a certain monster is worth more (or less) than its Monster Manual
rating, feel free to change it. Keep in mind, however, that just because
the PCs in your campaign happen to all have bane weapons useful
against aberrations, that doesn't necessarily make beholders a lesser
challenge overall. It just means that your party is particularly well
equipped to deal with their challenge.

 
