XP awards for roleplaying are purely ad hoc. That is,.no-system
exists for assigning Challenge Ratings to bits of roleplaying. The
awards should be just large enough for the player.to notice them,
probably no more than S0 XP per character level per adventure.

Story Awards and Standard Awards
You can handle story awards in one of two ways. The first is to}
Lmake all awards story awards. Thus, killing monsters would earn)
no experience in and of itself—although it may allow characters}
to.achieve what they need to do in order to earn a story award. tf)
you follow this method, you should still pay attention to how!
\many experience points.the characters would be earning by
defeating enemies, so that you can make sure the PCs’ treasure
totals are in line with whatthey should be earning.
The second way is to use standard awards for defeating enemies
but award only half the normal amount for doing so, making up
the other half through story awards, This method has the virtue of
keeping the treasure earned at about the same rate as XP earned,
Dont simply add. story awards to standard awards (even if
| you. compensate by giving out more treasure as well) unless
you want to speed up.character progression,

EXPERIENCE PENALTIES
Characters can lose experience points by casting certain
spells or creating magic items. This allocation of personal
power serves a specific game function: It limits and controls
these activities, as well as making them interesting choices for
players, In general, however, you shouldnt.use experience
penalties in any other situation. While awards.can be used to
encourage behavior, penalties dont serve.to discourage bad
behavior. They usually only lead to arguments.and anger. If a
player behaves in.a way you dont want him .to behaye, talk to

him about it. Lf he continues, stop playing with him.

DEATH AND EXPERIENCE POINTS
If a character takes part in an encounter, even if she dies.
during the encounter, that character getsa share.of the experi-
ence points, If a character dies and is raised, the awarded
experience points are granted to her after she comes back
from the dead (and after she loses the level from death, if
appropriate).

TREASURE AND OTHER REWARDS
Unless you're making up an.adventure.as you go, you assign
treasure as you make up encounters, The rules for treasure and
other rewards appear in Chapter 3: Adventures,

 

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

EXPERIENCE POINTS

The experience point award for encounters is based on the concept
that 13.33 encounters of an EL equal to the player characters’ level
allow them to gain a level

Thirteen or fourteen encounters can seem to go by very quickly.
This is particularly true at low levels, where most of the encounters
that characters take part in are appropriate for their levels. At higher
levels, the PCs face a varied range of Encounter Levels (more lower
than higher, if they're to survive) and thus gain levels somewhat
more slowly, Higher-level characters also tend to spend more and
more time interacting with each other and with NPCs, which results
in fewer XP over time.

With this information in mind, you can roughly gauge how quickly
the PCs in your game will advance. In fact, you can control it. You are
in charge of what encounters happen and the circumstances in which
they occur. You can predict at what level the characters will reach the

 

  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

CHARACTER DEATH!

It happens. Adventuring is a high-risk enterprise. Characters.in}
your.campaign will die, sometimes because they were reckless. and,
isometimes because luck was against them. Fortunately, D&D.is a
game, and death doesnt have to be the end.
| Raise dead, reincarnation, resurrection, and true resurrection can
return characters to life, Bringing Back the Dead, on page 171.of.
the Player's Handbook, briefly discusses all four. Any. creature,
brought back to life loses one level of experience, unless brought)
back with true resurrection. The character's new XP total is midway.)
between the minimum needed for his or her new level and the
minimum needed for the next one. If the character. was 1st level,
he or she loses 2 points of Constitution instead of losing alevel.
This level loss or Constitution loss cannot be repaired by any
mortal spell, even wish or miracle. Still, the revived character.can
Limprove his or her Constitution normally (at 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th,
and 20th level) and earn experience by further adventuring to
regain the lost level. ,
Raise dead has a number of limitations. The caster can only
raise characters who have been dead up.to one day per caster.
level. Casting time is a single minute. tt does heal 1 hit- point,
per Hit Die, but the body of the raised character must be
whole, Raise dead doesn't regenerate missing body parts.
_) Paying someone to cast mise dead costs 450 gp (assuming a 9th-
level caster) plus 5,000 gp for expensive. material components.
Reincarnate brings back creatures dead one week or less, but.
in entirely new bodies. The subject of the spell faces the same |
level loss or Constitution loss as with other spells. Paying some-)
one to cast-mincarnate costs 1,280 gp (assuming a 7th-level
caster), making it the least expensive option. The drawback.of|
course, is that the player has no control over the new form |
and may.not be welcome in civilized society.
Resurrection must be cast within 10 years per
caster level of the time.of death tt
worksas long as some small
portion of the character's
body still exists.

dark temple and prepare accordingly. IFit turns out that you predicted
incorrectly, you can engineer encounters to allow them to reach the
appropriate level or increase the difficulty of the temple encounters
as needed.

Published adventures always provide a guideline for which levels
of characters are appropriate to play, Keep in mind that this infor-
mation is based on character power as well as expected treasure.
Table 5~1: Character Wealth by Level gives a guideline for about how
much treasure a character of a certain level should possess. This
guideline is based on the (slightly more than) thirteen-encounters-
per-level formula and assumes average treasures were given out. If
you use a published adventure but tend to be generous with experi
ence points, you might find that the characters in your group don't
have as much treasure as the scenario assumes. Likewise, if you're
stingy with experience points, the characters will probably gain trea-
sure faster than levels, Of course, if you're stingy or generous with
both treasure and experience points, it might just all even out.

 
