  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
 

 
  
  
   
  
 

       

Casting time is a full 10 minutes It heals the character completely
when cast, but the character suffers the same level loss or Constitu-
tion loss as with nuise dead, Paying someone to cast resunection costs
910 gp (assuming a 13th-level caster) plus 10,000 gp for expensive
material components.

True resurrection, like resurrection, can be cast on a character who |

-has been dead for up to 10 years per caster level. No part of the}
\deceased is required for the spell. Casting time is a full 10 minutes.
(True resurrection restores a character completely, with no loss of |
evel or Constitution. This is the most expensive of these spells to
have cast. Paying someone to cast true resurrection costs 1,530 gp.
\(assuming a 17th-level caster) plus 25,000 gp for expensive mate-
rial components.

MAKING A NEW CHARACTER
Aplayer may decide thar she wants to make a new character rather
jthan continue adventuring with her existing one. Or maybe
|youlve recruited a new player for your campaign. When a player
jmakes.a.new.character for your game, you have an important}.
ichoice to make: What level will the new character be? }
In general, D&D encourages continuity of characters in the |
adventuring group. Players get a greater sense of accomplish-
ment if they develop their characters over time. The group is
more effective—and has more fun—if they learn the strengths,
weaknesses, and quirks of the PCs they're adventuring with. A
sense of teamwork is hard to develop if the roster of PCs is
lalways shifting,
But there are times when making anew character is the best
loption. Under the following circumstances, a new character may
{be warranted.
|e Anew player joins the campaign
\*_An existing PC dies, and the party doesnit. have access to magic
that brings her back to life.
An existing PC is unable to adventure foran extended period of
time, Perhaps he was turned to stone by a.medusa.cult, which
then absconded with the statue. The rest of the party intends to
rescue_him, but until that happens, he should have another
character to play so he’s not left out.
The players find they dont have a character to covera key. party)
role. If the player of the sole PC cleric moves away, another)
player might make up a new cleric so the party still has access,
to healing magic.
An existing PC has become difficult to play, and the player is
amenable_to.a_new.character. Perhaps you allowed an ogre
barbarian PC into your game, bur the players find they prefer
political intrigues and urban adventures.
* Aplayeris eager to try a new race orclass,
How. you handle each of these situations is up to you. Choosing
lalevel for the new character is matter of finding the balance point

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:
WHEN A PC FALLS BEHIND
D&D works best when all the PCs are within a level or two of each
other. The classes are carefully balanced against each other at each
level, and the Challenge Rating system gives you great freedom to
design appropriate challenges that are fun for everyone at the table.
But often an unlucky PC—or the PC of a sometimes-absent player—
will fall behind the rest of the party, If the difference is one or two levels,
you don't need to do anything special. The experience point system
gives bigger awards to lower-level PCs, so a character who's behind by
a level or two will naturally catch up over time. For example, if a party of
three 9th-level PCs and one 7th-level PC defeat a CR 9 vrock, the 9th-
level PCs each get 675 XP (2,700 + 4), but the 7th-level PC gets (4,200
+ 4) 1,050 XP.

   
 

   

where a. new. character is viable and fun to play without outshin-,
ing the other PCs,
Under most circumstances, a new character should begin play_,
at the beginning of the level lower than the player's previous PC.|
{For example, if a player.wanrs his 9th-level paladin to ride off
jinto the sunset, his new character starts with 28,000 XP, the
beginning of 8th level. A new player should create his first char-
acter at the beginning of the level where the lowest-level exist-
ing PCis.

In some circumstances, you might want.to be more lenient. if
ithe lowest-level PC is magically imprisoned, you can let that)

player create a new, temporary character at the same level until the
original PC is rescued. But avoid situations where a player would
be punished for sticking with an existing PC rather than creating |
a new.one. It's bad for continuity if a player picks a brand-new,
10th-level character over a longtime PC who will come back from
the dead at 9th level.

You also need to tell the player creating the new character how ,
jmuch gear to have. The new PC should have the proper equip-.
jment to be an effective character, but his weapons, armor, and

magic items shouldnt be so good that they inspire jealousy among
the other players. Two factors determine how much gear to allow:
the average amount of gear among the other PCs and whether the
new PC will have.access to.an old PC's gear.

As long as your campaign is reasonably close to the PC gear
guidelines outlined in Creating PCs above ist Level (page 199),
you can use Table 5-1: Character Wealth by Level ro set the gear,

4For example, a new_13th-level character should have 110,000 gp)
in gear, If your characters are more than 20% higher or lower!
than the values on the table, adjust the gear value for the new!
character by the same percentage. If the three 12th-level charac-|
ters each have 132,000 gp in equipment (50% above the norm.of!
88,000), give a new Lith-level character 99,000 gp (50% above the,
norm of 66,000).

If the new character is replacing an old PC, reduce the rea-
sure amount by whatever the old PC leaves behind. Forexample,
if a player creates a new 3rd-level druid because her 4th-level
druid died, she can just pick up the old PC's gear and use it,
rather than getting a gear allowance from you. But if the player
makes a 3rd-level rogue instead, the gear of a 4th-level druid
wont be as useful. If the party sells the druid’s gear for 1,000 gp,
give the new 3rd-level rogue a gear allowance of 1,700 gp so the
character will have a total of 2,200 gp in equipment. If the party
instead buries the druid with her equipment, give the rogue
2,700 gp worth of equipment

Asa general rule, a new character can spend no more than half
her total wealth on a single item, and no more than one quarter
the total wealth on consumables such as ammunition, scrolls,
potions, wands, or alchemical items.

The experience point system will diminish a three-level gap over
time, but it might not erase it. And a PC four or more levels behind
the rest of the party is a recipe for trouble. An encounter challeng-
ing to the rest of the party is overwhelming to the lowest-level char-
acter, increasing the likelihood that character will die—and thus
fall further behind. The player of the lowest-level character might
feel like his character can't do anything useful, and the other play-
ers might resent having to keep the lowest-level character out of
harm's way.

Ifa PC falls that far behind the rest of the party, take action to restore
a semblance of balance. You can discuss a new character with the
player, write a solo adventure for that character to earn the XP needed
to catch up, or design encounters that simultaneously provide chal-
lenges appropriate for the low-level player and the rest of the PCs.
