 

ory, she tells them where he lives." In this example, the flowchart
has two lines drawn away from the innkeeper, One goes to the
livery and the other goes to Gregory's house, since those are the
two likely paths the PCs.will take next.

Timeline: Another way.to organize an event-based adventure is.
by the passage of time. A timeline starts when the PCs get involved |
in the story (or sometimes even before then). It marks what hap-)
\pens when: “One day afterthe PCs arrive in town, Joham comes.to,
{them pleading for help. The next day, Joham is found dead in his}
jroom at the inn. That evening, Gregory comes to the inn, enkingt
jaround for information to see if the body has been found.”

Combination: An event-based adventure might use both a
‘flowchart and a timeline thatare closely integrated: “If the PCs ask
the innkeeper about Gregory on the day after the murder, she tells
them where he lives, The following morning, Gregory shows up at
the inn, heavily disguised, and convinces the innkeeper that he is
jbeing framed for the murder. She agrees to hide him. If the PCs.
sask the innkeeper about Gregory after this occurs, she gives them |
\the location of his house—but she also tells the PCs (untruth: |
Tfully) chat Gregory has been away from town on a trip for the last |
several: duya?

Random Encounters: Even in an adventure driven by events,
an encounter unrelated to the flow of events can serve to empha-
size (or distract from) the ongoing plot. See Table 3-28: Urban
Encounters, page 102, for an example of an event-based random
encounter table.

 

\Eventually, each adventure comes to_an_end, A_climactic
jencounter places a nice capstone on an adventure, particularly if
\it’s one thar the players have seen coming, (If the ogres they have
,been fighting have been referring to a dragon, then an encounter
with the dragon is a suitable ending.) =

Many_adyentures require 0 denouement—some wrap-up to
deal with the aftermath of the final encounter. This can be the
time when the PCs discover what treasure is in the dragons hoard,
a dramatic scene in the king's court in which he thanks the adven-
turers for slaying the dragon and passes out knighthoods all}
around, or a time to mourn those comrades who did not survive,
the battle. Generally, the denouement should not take nearly as
long as the climax itself.

As with movies and books, adventures sometimes deserve se-
quels. Many_adventures lead directly into new adventures for the
PGs, relating to what they have accomplished or discovered. If the
characters just destroyed the fortress of the evil overlord, they may
find clues within the fortress that betray the identity of a traitor on

,the town council who has been secretly aiding the warlord. Per-

jhaps the overlord’s orc minions fled the site—where did they go?

\(Ores, no matter where they go, are sure to cause trouble!) Suppose

bandits attacked the adventurers while they were on their way to
the overlord’s fortress—going back now and finding the bandits’
lair is an adventure of both justice. and vengeance.

As interesting as it is to talk about adventures (and the stories be-
hind them), the game is really composed of encounters. Each indi-
vidual encounter is like its own game—with a beginning, a middle,
yan end, and victory conditions to determine a winnerand a loser.

TAILORED OR STATUS QUO
_Just.as.with motivations, encounters can be tailored specifically to
ithe PCs or not. A tailored encounter is one in which you take into.
iconsideration that the wizard PC has a wand of invisibility and the
fighter's AC is 23. In atailored encounter, you design things to fit}
the PCs and the players. In fact, you can specifically design some-_

thing foreach PC to. do—the skeletal minotaur is a challenge for
the barbarian, another skeleton with a crossbow is on a ledge thar
only the rogue.can reach, only the monk can leap across the chasm.
to pull the lever.to raise the portcullis in front of the treasure, and
ithe cleric’s hide from undead spell allows her to get to the treasure
{the skeletons are guarding while the battle rages.
|. Astatus quo encounter forces the PCs to adapt to the encounter
sather than the other.way.around. Bugbears live on Clover Hill,
and if the PCs go there, they encounter bugbears, whether bug-
bears are an appropriate encounter for them or not. This kind of |
lencounter gives the world a certain verisimilitude, and so it’s good)
to. mix a few in with the other sorts of encounters.
If you decide to use only status quo encounters, you should
probably let your players know about this, Some of the encounters}
you place.in your adventure setting will be an appropriate chal-;
lenge for the PCs, but others might not be. For instance, youcould
decide where the dragon’ lair is long before the characters are ¢x-
jperienced enough to survive a fight against the dragon. If players
jknow that the setting includes status quo encounters that their
icharacters might not be able to handle, they will be more likely to
make the right decision if they come. upon.atough encounter.
That decision, of course, is to run away and fightagain another day
(when the party.is better equipped to meet the challenge).

CHALLENGE RATINGS AND

ENCOUNTER LEVELS
A monster's Challenge Rating (CR) tells you the level of the party.
for which that monster is a good challenge. A monster of CR S is |
an appropriate challenge for a group of four Sth-level characters If.
the characters are.of higher level than the monster, they get fewer,
XP because the monster should be easier to defeat. Likewise, ifthe}
characters are of lower level than a monster's Challenge Rating,
the PCs get a greater. award.

Parties with five or more members can often take on monsters
with higher CRs, and parties of three or fewer are challenged by.
monsters with lower CRs, The game rules account for these facts
by dividing the XP earned by the number of characters in the
party (see Rewards, page 36),

Multiple Monsters and Encounter Levels
Obviously, if one monster has a given Challenge Rating, more
than one monster represents.a greater.challenge than that. You
can_use Table 3-1: Encounter Numbers to determine the
Encounter Level of a group.of monsters,.as well as to determine
how many monsters equate to a given Encounter Level (useful in
balancing an encounter with a PC party).

To balance an encounter with a party, determine the party's
level (the average of all the members’ character levels). You want
the party's level to match the level of the encounter, so find that
number in the “Encounter Level” column. Then look across that
line to find the CR of the kind of creature that you want to use in
the encounter. Once you have found it, look at the top of that
column.ro find the number of creatures that makes a balanced
encounter for the party.

Forexample, suppose you wantto send ogres against a 6th-level
party. The Monster Manual entry on ogres shows that they are CR 2.
Looking at the “6” row in the “Encounter Level” column, you read.
across to the “2” entry and then check the top of that column to}
find that four CR 2 monsters make a good 6th-level encounter. To
determine the Encounter Level of a group of monsters. reverse!

these steps (begin with the number of creatures, read down tofind |
the CR for the creature, then look left to find the appropriate EL).

In general, if a.creature’s Challenge Rating is.rwo lower than.a |

given Encounter Level, then. two creatures.of that kind equal an
{encounter of that Encounter Level. Thus, a pair of frost giants (CR
\9 each) isan EL 41 encounter. The progression holds of doubling
the number of creatures for each drop of two places in their indi-
