 

Barred Doors: When characters try_to bash down a barred”

door, it's the quality of the bar that matters, not the material the
door is made of It takes a DC 25 Strength check to break through
a door with a wooden bar, and a DC 30 Strength check if the bar is

made of iron, Characters can attack the door and destroy it,

instead, leaving the bar hanging in the now-open doorway.

Magic Seals; In addition to magic traps (described in the traps |

[section below), spells such as arcane lock can discourage passage.

[through a door. A door with an ercane lock spell on it is considered)
locked even if it doesnt have a physical lock. It takes a knock spell, |

|a dispel magic spell, or a successful Strength check (DC equal to 10
Lethe value given on Table 3-17; Random Door Types, page 78) to
get through such a door,

Hinges: Most doors have hinges, Obviously; sliding doors do
not. (They usually have tacks or grooves instead, allowing them
to slide easily to one side.)

Standard Hinges: These hinges are metal, joining one edge of the.

\door to the doorframe or wall, Remember that the door swings |
lonen toward the side with the hinges. (So, if the hinges are on the |
|PCs' side, the door opens toward them; otherwise it opens away |

from them.) Adventurers can take the hinges apart one at a time
with successful Disable Device checks (assuming the hinges are
on their side of the door, of course). Such a task has a DC of 20
because most hinges are rusted or stuck. Breaking a hinge is diffi-
cult. Most have hardness 10 and 30 hit points. The break DC for a
hinge is the same as for breaking down the door (see Table 3-17:
Random Door Types, page 78).
|__Nested Hinges; These hinges are much.more complex than ordi-
(nary hinges, and are found only in areas of excellent construction,
jsuch as an underground dwarven citadel, These hinges are built
{into the wall and allow the door to swing open in either direction.
(PCs can't get at the hinges to fool with them unless they break
,through the doorframe or wall. Nested hinges are typically found
‘on stone doors but sometimes on wooden or iron doors.as well.
Pivots; Pivots aren't really hinges atall, but simple knobs jutting
from the top and bottom of the door that fit into holes in the
doorframe, allowing the door to spin. The advantages of pivots is

that they cant be dismantled like hinges and they're simple to,
make. The disadvantage is that since the door pivots on its center,
of gravity (typically in the middle), nothing larger than half the}
door's width can fir through. Doors with pivots are usually stone |

and are often quite wide to overcome this disadvantage. Another
solution is to place the pivot toward one side and have the door be
thicker at that.end and thinner toward the other end so thar it
opens more like anormal door, Secret doors in walls often turn
on pivots, since the lack of hinges makes it easier to hide the
door's presence, Pivots also allow objects such.as bookcases to be
used as secret doors.

Special Doors: An interesting facet of a dungeon might be a
\sealed door too strong to break down, Such a door might be
jopened only by operating secret switches, or hidden (and distant)

levers. Crafty builders make using the switches or levers more dif-
ficult by requiring that they be used in a special way. For example,
a particular door might only open ifa series of four levers is moved
into a specific configuration—two pushed up and two pushed
down. Ifa lever in the series is put in the wrong position, a trap is
sprung, Now imagine how much more difficult it would be if
there were a dozen or more levers, with multiple settings, spread
out through the entire dungeon. Finding the method to open a
sspecial door (perhaps leading into. the vault, the vampire's lair, or
ithe dragon's secret temple) can be an adventure in itself

Sometimes a door is special because of its construction, A lead-
Slined door, for example, provides a barrier against many detection
ispellsA heavy iron door might be built in a circular design,

rolling to. one side on a track once it is opened. A mechanical door

linked with levers or winches might not open unless the proper)
mechanism is activated. Such doors often sink into the floor, rise |

up.into.the ceiling, lower like a drawbridge, or slide into the wall,
rather. than merely swinging open like a normal door.

Secret Doors: Disguised as a bare patch of wall (or floor, or ceil-
ing), a bookcase, a fireplace, or a fountain, a secret door leads.r0 a

| secret passage or room. Someone examining the area finds a secret

{door, if one exists, on a successful Search check (DC 20 for a typi-

\cal secret door to DC 30 fora well-hidden secret door). Remember
that elves have a chance to detect a secret door just by casually
locking at an area |

Many secret doors require a special methed of opening, suchas.

la hidden button or pressure plate. Secret doors can open like nor-)
mal doors, or they may pivot, slide, sink, rise,.or even lower like a
drawbridge to permit access. Builders might puta.secret door
down low near the floor or high up in a wall. making it difficult to.
find or. reach, Wizards and sorcerers have a spell, phase door, that
allows them to create a magic secret door that only they can use.

Magic Doors: Enchanted by the original builders, adoor might

{speak to explorers, warning them away, It might be protected from

\harm, increasing its hardness or giving it more hit points as well as.

jan improved saving throw bonus against disintegrate and other
similar spells. A magic door might not lead into the space revealed
beyond, but instead it might be a portal to a faraway place or even.
another plane of existence, Other magic doors might require pass-
words or special keys (ranging from the tail feather of an evil
eagle, to. a note played upon a lute, to a certain frame.of mind) to
open them. Effectively, the range and variety of magic doors is
limited only by your imagination.

Door Traps: More often than just about any other facet of a}
dungeon, doors are protected by traps. The reason is pretty obyi-
ous—an opened door means an intruder. A mechanical trap.can
be connected to a door by wires or springs so that it activates when.
the door is opened—firing an arrow, releasing a cloud of gas,,
opening a trapdoor, letting loose a monster, dropping a heavy.
block on intruders, or whatever. Magic traps such as glyphs of wand-
ing typically are cast directly on the door, blasting intruders with
flame or some other magical attack.

Portcullises: These special doors consist of iron or thick, iron-
bound, wooden shafts that descend from a recess in the ceiling
above an archway. Sometimes a portcullis has crossbars that create
a grid, sometimes not. Typically raised by means of a winch or a
capstan, a portcullis can be dropped quickly, and the shafts end in
spikes to discourage anyone from standing underneath (or from
attempting to dive under itas it drops). Once it is dropped, a port-
cullis locks, unless it is so large thatno.normal person could lift it
anyway, In any event, lifting a typical portcullis requires a DC 25
Strength check,

ROOMS

Rooms in dungeons vary in shape and size. Although many are
simple in construction and appearance, particularly interesting.
rooms have multiple levels joined by stairs, ramps, or ladders, as
well as statuary, altars, pits, chasms, bridges, and more.

Keep three things in mind when designing a dungeon room:
decoration, ceiling support, and exits.

Most kinds of intelligent creatures have a tendency to decorate
their lairs. Ir should be fairly commonplace to find carvings or
paintings on the walls of dungeon rooms. Exploring adventurers
also often encounter statues and bas reliefs, as well as scrawled
messages, marks, and maps left behind by others who have come
this way before. Some of these marks amount to little more than.

,gtaffic. (“Robilar was here"), while others may be.useful to adven-
turers. who examine them closely,

Underground chambers are prone to collapse. so many rooms—|
particularly large ones—have arched ceilings or pillars to support

ithe. weight of the rock overhead.

Pay. close attention.to the exits, Creatures that can't open doors
can't make_a Jair in a sealed room without some sort of external
