  
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   

Bridge: A bridge connects two higher areas separated by.a lower
area, stretching across a chasm, over a river, or above apit.A simple
bridge might be a single wooden plank, while an elaborate one
could be made of mortared stone with iron supports and side rails
Narrow Bridge; If a bridge is particularly narrow, such as a series
of planks laid over lava fissures, treat it as a ledge (see Special
Floors, page 60). It requires a Balance check (DC dependent on
width) to cross such a bridge.

Rope Bridge: Constructed of wooden planks suspended from.
ropes, a rope bridge is convenient because it's portable and can be
easily removed. It takes two full-round actions to untie one end of
arope bridge, but a DC 15 Use Rope check red
move action. If only one.of the nwo. supporting ropes is attached,
everyone on the bridge must succeed on a DC 15 Reflex save to
avoid falling off, and thereafter must make DC 15 Climb checks to
move along the remnants of the bridge
Rope bridges are usually 5 feet wide. The two ropes that support
them have § hit points each

Drawbridge: Some bridges have mechanisms that allow them.to.
be extended or retracted from the gap they cross. Typical!
winch mechanism exists on only one
move action to lower a drawbridge, bur the bridge doesnt come
down until the beginning of the lowering character's next turn. It
takes a full-round action to raise a drawbridge; the drawbridge is
up at the end of the action
Particularly Jong or wide drawbridges may take more time to
raise and lower, and some may require Strength checks to rotate
the winch,

Railings and Low Walls: Some bridges have railings or low wall
along the sides, If a bridge does, the railing or low walls affect Bal.
ance checks and bull rush attempts as described for ledges (see
Special Fle
bridge occupants
Chutes and Chimneys: Stairs aren't the only way_to move up
and down.in a dungeon, Sometimes.a vertical shaft. connects
levels of a dungeon or links a dungeon with the surface. Chutes
are usually traps that dump characters into.a lower area—often a
place featuring some dangerous situation with which they must
contend,
Pillar: A common sight in any dungeon, pillars and columns
give support to ceilings. The larger the room, the more likely it has
pillars. As a rule of thumb, the deeper in the dungeon a room is
the thicker the pillars need to be to support the overhead we
Pillars tend to be polished and often have carvings,
paintings, or inscriptions upon them
lender Pillar: These pillars are only a foot or two
across, so they don't occupy a.whole square. Place a
dot in the center of each square that has a slender
pillar in it, and dont worry about exactly how much
space it takes up, A creature standing in the s
square as a slender pillar gains a +
Armor_Class anda +1 cover bonus on Reflex saves
these bonuses dont stack with cover bonuses from
other sources). The presence of a slender pillar does
not otherwise affect a creature's fighting space,
because it’s assumed that the creature is using the
pillar to its advantage when it can. A typical slender
pillar has AC 4, hardness 8, and.250 hit points
Wide Pillar: These pillars take up an entire square
and provide cover to anyone behind them. They
have AC 3, hardness 8, and 900 hit points.
A DC 20 Climb check is sufficient.to climb
most pillars; the DC increases to 25 for polished
or unusually slick ones,
Stalagmite/Stalactite: These tapering
natural rock columns extend from the floor
Pillar _(stalagmite) or the ceiling (stalactite). Stalagmites.

 

 

s the time to a

   

 

 

   

 

 

ide of the bridge. It takes a

 

 

 

 

 

 

rs, page 60). Low walls likewise provide cover to

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

cover bonus to

 

 

  

 

and stalactites function as slender pillars, {4 Statueofa warrior,
although it is rumored that deep in the
Underdark, some wide stalagmites and stalac
tites exist,

Statue: Reflections of bygone days, stat
ues found in dungeons can be realistic depic
tions of persons, creatures, or scenes, or they
can be less lifelike in their imagery: Statues.
€ as commemorative representations

 

 

often s

  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 

Statues may be either painted or left bare, Some_{ I]
have inscriptions, Adventurers wisely distrust iy
statues in dungeons for fear that they may ani-_\ }}
mate and attack, as a stone golem can do, Statues. \.
in a dungeon could also be a sign indicating the
presence of a monster with a perrifying power
uch as a medusa ora cockatrice). Feel free to uti:
lize both of these ideas, bur dont forget thar som:
times a statue is just a statue,
unction as wide pillars, taking
up a square and providing cover. Some statues

 

  

 

Most statues f

   

are smaller and act as slender pillars.A DC.15_ (—-V
Climb check allows a character.to climb a statue.

Tapestry: Elaborately embroidered patterns or scenes on cloth
tapestries hang from the walls of well-appointed dungeon rooms or
corridors, They not only make chambers more.comfortable as
dence but can add a ceremonial touch to shrines and.throne rooms,
Crafty builders take advantage of tapestries to place alcoves, con:
cealed doors, or secret switches behind them, Sometimes the images
in a tapestry contain clues to the nature of the builders, the inhabi.
tants, or the dungeon itself

Tapestries provide total. concealment (50% miss chance) to char
acters behind them if they're hanging from the ceiling, or con
alment (20% miss chance) if they're flush with the wall
Climbing a big tapestry isnt particularly difficult, requiring a
DC 15 Climb check (or DC 10 if a wall is within reach

Pedestal: Anything important on display in.ad
fabulous treasure to a coffin, tends to rest atop a pedestal or a dais
Raising the object off the floor focuses attention on it (and, in
practical terms, keeps it safe from any water or other substance
that might seep onto the floor), A pedestal is often trapped to pro-
tect whatever sits atop it. It can conceal a secret trapdoor beneath
itself or provide a way to reach a door in the ceiling above itself
Only the largest pedestals take up an entire square; most provide
no cover,

Pool; Pools of water collect naturally in low spots in dungeons (2
dry dungeon is rare). Pools can also be wells or natural under
ground springs, or they can be intentionally created
basins, cisterns, and fountains, In any event,
water is fairly common in dungeons, harbor
ing sightless fish and sometimes aquatic
monsters, Pools provide water for dun
geon denizens, and thus are as important
an area for a predator to control as a water
ing hole aboveground in the wild

Shallow Pool: fa square contains a shallow
pool, it has roughly 1 foot of standing water W
It costs 2 squares of movement to move
into a square with a shallow pool, and the
DC of Tumble checks in such squares
increases by 2

Deep Pool: These squares have at
least 4 feet of standing water, It costs
Medium or larger creatures 4 squares of
movement to move into a square with
a deep pool, or characters can swim if [
Small or smaller creatures “displaying a grand gem

 

 

   

  

    

m 3

 

eon, fre

 

    

 

 

  

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

a

   

they wis
