You dont have to literally make shaded text for your own notes, character in.the center of the room (a move action). A successful,

but be sure to highlight material in your notes that.you.want to souch attack roll indicates that the spider lands on a character. The |
use to quickly describe the area in an interesting way. Be sure not Tiny. spiders remain in the web and eat small meals trapped by the |
to include information that could not be known to the characters, web. They only move down from the web when all is still to cara)
and do not describe PC actions or emotions (such as “Asyoucower| {meal pacified by the larger spider.
in fear...”), Be fair about providing the players with clues, such as| | If the PCs burn the webs, the six young spiders are killed and
ithe webs in the shaded text for area 1 below, burdon't draw atten-| _,the adult spider (if still in the web) takes 146 points of damage.
jtien to them. The best way.to write shaded text or note what the, The webs burn for § rounds.
characters entering a location would sense is to imagine what you | ‘Small Monstrous Spider (1): hp 7
could see, hear, smell, or feel if you were entering that area,then| __ Tiny Monstrous Spiders (6): hp 2 each.
set down the pertinent information as succinctly as possible, ‘Treasure: Scattered amid the pile in the middle of the room. are]
19 spand a goblin skull with a 50 gp garnet inside. Characters only
THE MONASTERY CELLAR notice the gem with a DC 15 Search check.
The abandoned monastery_is.a burned-out ruin, destroyed when Trap: One of the sacks in the southwest corner has yellow mold ,
the place was attacked years ago by gnolls. The interesting part lies inside it. If disturbed, it bursts—all within 10 feet must make a,
belowground, in the cellars and crypts underneath the ruins. The DC 15 Fortitude save or take 1d6 points of Constitution damage.
,characters haye traveled to the monastery and, after some search- One minute later, everyone exposed to the initial burst must.save
ling, discovered a stairway leading down into the darkness. When| _Jagain (same DC) or take 2d6 points of Constitution damage,
\they.descend, they find themselves in encounter area 1 4 _jwhether or not they.rook damage in the initial exposure.
. z | [es not always necessary to write out complete rules, as has!
1. Entry Chamber (EL 3) |. _|been done here for yellow mold, You can add this level of descrip-

tion to your notes if you need it, or you.can-simply jor down the,

This damp chamber has an arched, vaulted ceiling 20 feet high page numberand book where its found.) ee

in the center, The walls are made of cut stone blocks, the floor
rough flagstones. Thick webs cover the ceiling. 2. Water Room =

5 fast-fl stream 3 to 5 feet deep enters this chamber at
Lip represent this chamber, use the 4-by-4-square.room.on the left side of ‘A fastflowing 2, }
[the dungeon. map (the room that's adjacent.to.the 4-by-S-square room). _) a poets and eae the south. Toward the south oe of}
You can. use the cutouts provided at.the back of this book.to identify the imber, same of the water collects in a depression, form- |
ing a pool about 4 feet deep at its edge and about 7 feet deep at

locations of specific features, such as doors and treasure, To begin, place
one of the staircase cutouts in the 2-square-wide corridor that extends the center. You can see a few blind, white crayfish crawling

from this room's north wall (and ignore the wall Actueen the room and | mong the:rocks.on the bortom.

the corridor), The adventure gets under way when.the characters descend 4
{this staircase and find themselves inside the room. tn. addition to what A good example of what not to include in shaded text is the fact that

the players learned from the shaded text, the room has other features that the water is icy cold—there's no way the characters could know this

will become apparent to the PCs as they imvestigate the place, One of the just by looking at the water from the doorway. Characters who

first things they see is a door in the east svall—place a door cutout.over. simply turn around and leave after a glance inside may never dis-

any square along the wall between this room and the one to the.east, They, cover the sunken skeleton, much less the helpful items beside it

will also quickly notice a pile of rubbish in the center of the rom and

another pile of trash in the northwest corner; you can use cutouts repre | This chamber is represented by the 4-by-S-square room adjacent to the area

senting rubble to show the location of these features. 4 where the adventure began. The pool occupies the 2-by-2-square area in

  

the southeast corner of the chamber.
A litter of husks, skin, bones, spider castings, and filth lies in a dis-

gusting pile in the middle of the room. A DC 22 Spor check is The only way.out of this room, aside from the door the PCs
required to notice the creatures (a spider and its young; see below) entered through, is a secret door on the south wall in the south-
hiding in the webs above. The refuse pile in the middle of the west corer of the chamber. Locating it requires a DC 18 Search
room contains treasure. check. (Don't put a cutout on the map to represent this door until the PCs

The Spor DC for the lurking spider is intentionally difficult, but discover it.)

not out of the reach of the intended PCs (in this case, all 1st-level The monks who once lived here worked this natural cavern in
\characters), order to enlarge it. A strong, damp breeze makes it impossible to

Ten moldy sacks of flour and grain are stacked in the northwest keep torches lit here, Eight rotting barrels remain lined up along,
corner. The cloth tears easily, revealing the ruined contents. One the west wall from when the room was used to gather water for the
of the sacks contains.a.trap. monastery, A few buckets also lie scattered about.

There is a solid oak door on the east wall. The door is not locked, (In a ruin, it's always handy to know what a room or area was
bur it is stuck (DC 16 to open), Anyone listening ar the door who formerly.used for, even if it now.serves a different purpose, or no.
makesa DC 12 Listen check hearsamoaning sound, rising andthen —_ purpose atall. Your descriptions can often convey that former pur-
fading This is merely a strong breeze thar blows inarea 2. As soon as pose, reminding the players that this place has its own history—,
the door opens, the breeze rushes out the opening inagust,extin- _it's not just.a backdrop for adventures.)
guishing torches and possibly (50% chance) blowing out lanterns as Lying atthe botrom of the pool is the limed-over skeleton of the)

_ well, Torches cant be relit in the area while the door is open. abbot, Without a DC 15 Spot check, this appears.to be justan}

(The low. DC for the Listen check is intentional—you want the ,unusual mineral formation. In its bony fingers, the skeleton holds |

| PCs to hear the moaning and get spooked, thinking its. a ghost or a tube of the sort designed to contain a.rolled-up piece of vellum)
jsomething similarly horrible. Also, always remember.to.make a or parchment. If the remains are disturbed, the act dislodges the |
{note of the DC to open.a stuck or locked door.) Utube from the skeleron's grasp. The streams current carries away

Creatures; A Small monstrous spider and six Tiny young spi- the tube unless a character dives into the icy water immediately to

ders hide in the upper part of the webs in the center of the room, igetit, This requires. a DC 13 Swim check and an attack roll against

Lf the characters fail to spot the Small spider, it dropsdownon any| ‘the tube's AC of 14 (modified for size and, in this special case,

 
