DESERT TERRAIN
Desert terrain exists in warm, temperate, and cold climates, bur all
deserts share one common trait: little rain. The three categories of
desert terrain are tundra (cold deserts), rocky desert (often tem-
perate), and sandy desert (often warm).

DESERT TERRAIN FEATURES.

—— Desert Category ——
Tundra Rocky Sandy
Light undergrowth 15% 5% 5%
Ice sheet 25%. ~ —
Light rubble 5% 30% 10%
Dense rubble me 30% 5%
Sand dunes — = 50%

Sampce Warm Desert ENCOUNTER TABLE (EL 7)

d%___Encounter ‘Average EL
, 01-07 1 androsphinx 9
|08-15___1.gynosphinx 3
16-23 143 lamias 8
24-3) 1d3 basilisks 7
32-41 1 criosphinx 7
42-49 Sthelevel human monk NPC 7
and Sth-level human bard NPC
50-57 1 flesh golem 7
58-69 _1d3 hieracosphinxes 7
, 70-80 1 Huge monstrous scorpion (vermin) 7
|_81-88____1d3 jann (genie) 6
89-96 1d4¢2 Large monstrous scorpions (vermin) 6
197-100 1. mummy 5

Tundra differs from the other desert categories in two impor-
stant ways. Because snow and ice cover much of the landscape, it's
easy to find water. And during the height of summer, the per-
mafrost. thaws to a. depth of a foot orso, turning the landscape into
a vast field of mud. The muddy tundra affects movement and skill
use.as.the shallow bogs described in marsh terrain, although
there's little standing water.

The table above describes terrain elements found in each of the |
three desert categories. The percentages are intended to guide.
your map-drawing; dont roll for each square, The terrain ele-
ments on this table are mutually exclusive; for instance, a square.
of tundra may contain either light undergrowth or an ice sheet,
but nor both.

Light Undergrowth: Consisting of scrubby, hardy bushes
and cacti, light undergrowth functions as described for other ter-
rain types,

Ice Sheet: The ground is covered with slippery ice. It costs 2
squares of movement to enter.a square.covered by an ice sheet, and
the DC of Balance and Tumble checks there increases by 5. A DC
10 Balance check is required to run_or.charge across an ice sheet.

Light Rubble: Small rocks are strewn across the ground,
making nimble movement more difficult more difficult. The DC
of Balance and Tumble checks increases by 2

Dense Rubble: This terrain feature consists of more and larger
stones, It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a square with dense
rubble. The DC of Balance and Tumble checks increases by 5, and
the DC of Move Silently checks increases by 2.

Sand Dunes: Created by the action of wind on sand, sand

.dunes function as hills that move, If the wind is strong and con-

sistent, a sand dune can move several hundred feet in a week's
jtime. Sand dunes can cover hundreds of squares. They always have
jagentle slope pointing in the direction of the prevailing wind and
jasteep slope on the leeward side.

Other Desert Terrain Features: Tundra is sometimes bor-
dered by forests, and the occasional tree isn't out of place in the
cold wastes. Rocky deserts have towers and mesas consisting of,

flat. ground surrounded on all sides by cliffs and steep slopes (de-
scribed in Mountain Terrain, above). Sandy deserts sometimes.
have quicksand; this functions as described in Marsh Terrain, |
above, although desert quicksand is a waterless mixture of fine)
jsand and dust. All desert terrain is crisscrossed with dry
istreambeds (treatas.trenches $ 10.15 feet wide) that fill with water
jon the rare occasions when rain falls.

Stealth and Detection in the Desert: In general, the maxi-
mum distance in desert terrain at which a Spot check for detect-
jing the nearby presence of others can succeed is 6d6x20 feet,
beyond this distance, elevation changes and heat distortion in
warm deserts makes spotting impossible. The presence of dunes
in sandy deserts limits spotting distance to 6d6x10 feet.

The desert imposes neither bonuses nor penalties on Listen or,
Spot checks. The scarcity of undergrowth or other elements that
offer concealment or cover makes hiding more difficult.

Sandstorms
JA sandstorm reduces visibility to 1d10x5 feet and provides a. =}
,penalty on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. A sandstorm deals 1d3,
points of nonlethal damage per hour to any creatures caught in
the open, and leaves a thin coating of sand in its.wake. Driving |
sand creeps in. through all but the most secure seals and seams, 10
chafe skin and contaminate.carried gear.

PLAINS TERRAIN

Plains are where most civilizations flourish, so they.are often set-
tled. Plains come.in three categories: farms, grasslands, and battle-
fields, Farms are comman in settled areas, of course, while grass-;
lands represent untamed plains. The battlefields where large
armies clash are temporary places, usually reclaimed by natural
vegetation or the farmer's plow. Battlefields represent a third ter-
rain category because adventurers tend to spend alot of time
there, not because they're particularly prevalent.

The table below shows the proportions of terrain elements in
the different categories of plains. On a farm, light undergrowth
represents most mature grain crops, so farms growing vegetable
crops will have less light undergrowth, as will all farms during the
time between harvest and a few months after planting.

The terrain elements in.the.table below are mutually exclusive.

PLAINS TERRAIN FEATURES. =

—— Plains Category ——
Farm Grassland _ Battlefield
Light undergrowth 40% 20% 10%
Heavy undergrowth = 10% =
Light rubble = = 10%
Trench 5% — 5%
Berm —- - 5%

Undergrowth: Whether they're crops or natural vegetation,
the tall grasses of the plains function like light undergrowth in a
forest. Particularly.thick bushes form patches of heavy under-
growth thar dot the landscape in grasslands.

Light Rubble: On the battlefield, light rubble usually repre-
sents something that was destroyed: the ruins of a building or the
scattered remnants.of a stone wall, for example. It functions as,
described in the desert terrain section above.

Trench: Often dug before a battle to protect soldiers, a. trench |
functions as alow wall, except that it provides no cover against |
adjacent foes. It. costs 2 squares. of movement to leave a.trench, bur)
it costs nothing extra to.enter one. Creatures outside a mench who
make a melee attack against.a creature inside the trench gain a +11
bonus on melee attacks because they have higher ground.

In farm terrain, trenches are generally irrigation ditches.

Berm: A common defensive structure, a berm is a low, earthen
wall that slows moyement and provides a measure of cover. Put a

 
