that protect all the citizens of the city, Having an.evil alignment is crenellations on both sides and often has a tunnel and small)

not a crime (except in some severely theocratic cities, perhaps, rooms.running through its interior.
with the magical power to back up the law);.only evil deeds are Metropolis walls have AC 3, hardness 8, and 1,170 hp per 10)
against the law. Even when adventurers encounter an evildoer in. _ foot section.
the act of perpetrating some heinous evil upon the populace of, _|__ Unlike smaller cities, metropolises often have interior walls aswell |
the city, the law tends to frown on the sort of vigilante justice that, __.as surrounding walls—either old walls that the city has outgrown, or
leaves the evildoer dead or otherwise unable to testify at a trial.| _{walls dividing individual districts from each other. Sometimes these
|—The important point to remember about city laws when run-| walls are as large and thick as the outer walls, but more often they.
ning a city campaign is to use them to encourage crearive thinking } have the characteristics of a large city’s or small city's walls, }
and alternative ways of solving problems, If the players stop, __ Watch Towers: Some.city walls are adorned with watch towers,
having fun and long fora return to the dungeon, where they can \set at irregular interyals. Few cities have enough guards to keep |
use their combat might to its fullest potential, it's generally a good someone constantly stationed at every tower, unless the city is
‘idea to cut them some slack where the city laws are concerned, expecting attack from outside. The towers pravide.a superior view
and let them focus on the exciting aspects of adventure in the city. of the surrounding countryside as well as.a point of defense,
On the other hand, if your players in a city-centered campaign against invaders.
make feat, skill, and spell selections in order to optimize their Watch towers are typically 10 feet higher than the wall they.
jcharacters’ effectiveness in. working within and around the law, ,adjoin, and their diameter is 5 times the thickness of the wall.
ithen they are approaching the problem creatively and deserve the} _Arrow slits line the outer sides of the upper stories of a tower, and
jchance.to tryout their schemes. | {the top is crenellated like the surrounding walls are. In a small,
} | Trower (25 feet in diameter adjoining a 5-foor-thick wall), a simple
WEAPON AND SPELL RESTRICTIONS ladder typically connect the tower's stories and the roof. In.a larger.
Some cities demand that characters who enter the city bind their tower, stairs serve that purpose.
weapons into their sheaths with knotted cord to prevent easy access. Heavy wooden doors, reinforced with iran and bearing good |
Other cities may forbid enchantments or divinations such as detect locks (Open Lock DC 30), block entry to a tower, unless the tower
thoughts in the bazaar, Different cities have different laws about such is in regular use.
issues as carrying weapons in public and restricting spellcasters. As atule, the captain of the guard keeps the key to the tower
(When you plan an urban adventure, decide what the relevant laws are. secured on her person, and a second copy_is.in the city’s innerj
‘The most important consideration is to. enhance.the game with fortress or barracks.
such laws, not interfere with the players’ fun. While it might be Gates: A typical city gate is 2 gatehouse with nwo portcullises|
quite logical for.a city to confiscate weapons and material compo-, and murder holes above the space between them.
nents, such restrictions can really put a damper on player enjoy- In towns and some small cities, the primary entry is through
[ment of an urban adventure. If you want to increase the challenge iron double doors set into.the city wall,
of urban life by forcing characters to make do without weapons or Gates are usually open during the day and locked or barred. at,
\spells, that's fine—but be sure that the challenges they face are night. Usually, one gate lets in travelers after sunset and is staffed
appropriate_to their hindered state. Unless you've accounted for by guards who will open it for someone who seems honest, pres-
the restrictions in your adventure, it's best if the characters have ents proper papers, or offers a large enough bribe (depending on
relatively free access to all their capabilities. the city and the guards),

The city's laws may not affect all characters equally. A monk isnt
hampered at all by a law about peace-bonding weapons, buta|. Guards and Soldiers

cleric is reduced to a fraction of his power if all holy symbols are., A city typically has full-time military personnel. equal to 1% of its
confiscated at the city's gates. adult population, in addition te militia or conscript soldiers equal
At the same time, it's a good idea to let characters who are to 5% of the population, The full-time soldiers are city guards re-
resourceful or clever enough get around such restrictions—such sponsible for maintaining order within the city, similar to the role
as the wizard with the Eschew Materials fear who doesnt need of modern police, and (to alesser-extent) for defending the city
material components or the bard with a rapier concealed in the _from outside assault. Conscript soldiers are called up to serve in
neck of his lute. case of an attack on the city.
Atypical city guard force works on three eight-hour shifts, with
URBAN FEATURES 30% of the force on a day shift (8.4.a6. 10 4 nxt), 35% on an evening
Walls, doors, poor lighting, and uneven footing: In many ways a city shift (4 nat. to 12 amt), and 35% on. anight shift (12 as. to 8 AM.).
is much like a dungeon, Many of the dungeon terrain elements At any given time, 80% of the guards on duty are on the streets
[described earlier in this chapter work equally well in the city. Some _ patrolling, while the remaining 20% are stationed at various posts
new considerations for an urban setting are covered below. throughout the city, where they can respond to nearby alarms. At
Jeast one such guard post is present within each neighborhood of
Walls and Gates a city. (each neighborhood consisting of several districts).
Many cities are surrounded by walls, A typical small city wall is a The majority of a city guard force is made up of warriors, mostly
fortified stone wall 5 feet thick and 20 feet high. Such a wall is ist level. Officers include higher-level warriors, fighters, a fair.
fairly smooth, requiring a DC 30.Climb.check to scale, The walls number of clerics, and wizards or sorcerers, as well as multiclass ,
are crenellated on one side to provide a low wall for the guards fighter/spellcasters. }
atop it, and there is just barely room for guards so. walk along the |
top of the wall. Siege Engines
A typical small city wall has AC 3, hardness 8, and 450 bp per | Siege engines are large weapons, temporary. structures,.or pieces|
|10-foor section. of equipment traditionally-used in besieging a.castle or fortress.
A typical large city. wall is 10 feet thick and 30 feet high, with Catapult, Heavy: A heavy catapult is a massive engine capable of |
crenellations on both sides for the guards on top of the wall Iris ithrowing rocks or heavy objects with great force, Because the cata-
likewise smooth, requiring a DC 30 Climb check to scale. pult.throws its payload in.a high are, it can hit squares out of its line

Suchawall has AC 3, hardness 8, and 720 hp per 10-foot section... _of sight. To fire a heavy.catapult, the crew chief makes a special check
Autypical metropolis wall is 15 feet thick and 40 feet tall. It has against DC 15 using only his base attack bonus, Intelligence modi-

 
