 

fier, range increment penalty, and the appropriate modifiers from”

the lower section of Table 3-26. If the check succeeds, the catapult
stone hits the square the catapult was aimed at, dealing the indicated
damage to any object or character in the square. Characters who suc-

ceed on a DC 15 Reflex save take half damage, Once a catapult stone |
hits a square, subsequent shots hit the same square unless the cata-|

| pull is reaimed or the wind changes direction or speed.

| Handbook.) Then, count 3 squares away from the target square for
‘every range increment of theattack
Loading a catapult requires.a series of full-round actions. It
takes a DC 15 Strength check to winch the throwing arm down;
most catapults have wheels to allow up to two crew members to
use the aid another action, assisting the main winch operator. A

,DC.15 Profession (siege engineer) check latches the arm into}
\place,.and then another DC 15 Profession (siege engineer) check |
Uoads the catapult ammunition. It takes four full-round actions to,

reaim a heavy catapult (multiple crew members can perform these
full-round actions in the same round, so it would take a crew of
four only 1 round to reaim the catapult)

A heavy catapult takes up a space 15 feet across.

Catapult, Light: This is a smaller, lighter version of the heavy

catapult. It functions as the heavy catapult, except that it takes a
.DC 10 Strength check to winch the arm into place, and only two
(fullround actions are required to reaim the catapult.

A light catapult takes up a space 10 feet across,

Ballista; A ballista is essentially a Huge heavy crossbow fixed in
iplace. Its size makes it hard for most creatures to aim it, as de-
\scribed under Weapon Size on page 113.of the Player's Handbook.
(Thus, a Medium creature takes a -+ penalty on attack rolls when
\using a ballista, and a Small creature takes a—6 penalty It takes a

creature smaller than Large two full-round actions to reload the
ballista after firing.

A ballista takes up a space 5 feet across.

Ram: This heavy pole is sometimes suspended from a movable,
scaffold that allows the crew to swing it back and forth against,
objects, As a full-round action, the character closest to the front.of|
the ram makes an attack roll against the AC of the construction,.

applying the +4 penalty for lack of proficiency. (It's not possible to
be proficient with this device.) In addition to the damage given on
Table 3-26, upto nine other characters holding the ram can add
their Strength modifier to the ram's damage, if they devote an
attack action to doing so, For example, ten gnolls (each Str 15, +2
Str modifier) wielding a ram will deal 348+20 points of damage on
sasuccessful hit, It takes at least one Huge or larger creature, two
Large creatures, four Medium-size creatures, or eight Small crea-
tures to swing a ram. (Tiny or smaller creatures can't use a ram.)

Aram is typically 30 feet long. Ina battle, the creatures wield-

TABLE 3-26: SiEGE ENGINES

item Cost Damage
Catapult, heavy 800 gp 6d6
Catapult, light 550 gp 4d6
Ballista 500 gp 3d8
Ram 1,000 gp 3d6*
Siege tower 2,000 gp =

* See description for special rules.

CATAPULT ATTACK MODIFIERS
Condition
No line of sight to target square
Successive shots (crew can see where most recent misses landed)
Successive shots (crew can't see where most recent misses landed,
but observer is providing feedback)

Ifa catapult stone misses, roll 1d8 to determine where it lands.
\This determines the misdirection of the throw, with 1 being back).
toward the catapult and 2 through 8 counting clockwise around!
the target square. (See the diagram.on page 158 of the Player's!

ing the ram stand in. two adjacent columns of equal length, sith,

the.ram between them.

Siege Tower: This device is a massive wooden tower on wheels |

or rollers that can be rolled up against a wall to allow attackers to.
_scale the tower and thus to get to the top of the wall with cover,
{The wooden walls are usually 1 foot thick.
A typical siege tower takes up a space 15 feet across. The crea-
tures inside push it. ataspeed of 10 feet (and a siege tower can't
run), The eight crearures pushing on the ground floor have total

.cover, and those on higher floors get improved cover and can_fire ,

through arrow slits.

City Streets

Typical. city streets are narrow and twisting. Most streets average.
15 to 20 feet wide [(1d4+1)xs feet)], while alleys range from.10,

feet wide to only 5 feet. Cobblestones in good condition allow
,normal movement, but ones in poor repair and heavily rutted dirt
streets are considered light rubble, increasing the DC of Balance
\and Tumble checks by 2.

Some cities have no larger thoroughfares, particularly cities

thar gradually grew from small settlements to larger cities. Cities
that are planned, or perhaps have suffered a major fire thar
allowed authorities to. construct new roads through formerly
inhabited areas, might have a few larger streets through town.
These main roads are 25 feet wide—offering room for wagons to
pass each other—with $-foot-wide sidewalks on either side.

Crowds; Urban streets are often full of people going about their

idaily lives, In_most cases, it isn't necessary to put every 1st-level

commoner on the map when a fight breaks out on the city’s main |
thoroughfare, Instead just indicate which squares.on the map con- |

tain crowds, If crowds see something obviously dangerous, they'll
move away at 30 feet per round at initiative count 0,

Ir takes 2 squares of movement to enter a square with crowds,
The crowds provide cover for anyone who does so, enabling a Hide
check and providing a bonus to Armor Class and on Reflex saves

Directing Crowds: It takes a DC 15 Diplomacy check or DC 20
Intimidare check to convince a crowd to move in.a particular
direction, and the crowd must be able to hear or see the character
making the attempt. It takes a fullround action to make the Diplo-
macy check, but only a free action to. make the Intimidate check

If two or more characters are trying to direct a crowd in differ-
ent directions, they make opposed Diplomacy or Intimidate
checks to determine whom the crowd listens to. The crowd
ignores everyone if none of the characters’ check results beat the
DCs given above

Above and beneath the Streets
Adventurers often chase shadowy. figures through the cityscape,
and many PCs spend time on the run from the city watch. When a
chase leads upward or downward from the city streets, here are
some tips to keep things exciting.

Critical Range Increment Typical Crew
3S 200 ft. (100 ft. minimum) 4
— 150 ft. (100 ft. minimum) 2
19-20 120 ft. 1
— = 10
= = 20
Modifier
+

Cumulative +2 per previous miss (maximum +10)
Cumulative +1 per previous miss (maximum +5)
