town of Dyvers, you had better register with the local wizards
cabal. To do otherwise and use magic without the cabal’s blessing
results in swift retribution. Thieves’ guilds are also notorious for
the displeasure with which they view.nonmember rogues operat-
ing in their area, and the vigor of their response. On the other
hand, guilds can be simply beneficial to members of the appropri-_
ate class (see below). Or they.can be a way of controlling charac-}
\ters.of a specific class by some outside force. For example, a city,
might require all bards who perform within its city walls to be,
licensed by, the local bards’ guild, the better to suppress scandalous...
ballads that are overly critical of local figures.

Guilds often require dues,.caths of loyalty, or other commit-
ments from their members. The extent of these requirements
should be based on the number and quality of benefits a member
gains. Tangible benefits include any or all of the following,

* Training

+ Equipment availability (sometimes at a discount)

+ Lodging }
+_Information +
+ Job opportunities

+ Influential contacts

+ Legal benefits (members are allowed to do things others carit)

* Safety

One good reason to join a guild is to get an assist in character
training. If you use training requirements and/or costs in your
game, guilds can offer training at reduced rates to their members.
\And guild members are always assured of having a trainer when

ithe rime comes. Guilds that offer training often do so for free, but
then they require yearly dues of at least 1,000 gp. Other groups
offer training at half normal cost and only charge dues of 50 gp.

Not every organization need be based on class. The Defenders
of Truth is an organization made up of members.of almost every
class (even rogues) based on upholding order and the rights of the
people in a localized community, The Society of the Claw is a
secretive/evil group of monks, fighters, rogues, and sorcerers who
seek to overthrow the king and take control of the kingdom on
theix.own.

As a campaign progresses, the land or even the world will eventu-,
ally be shaken by drastic events. The most common of these dras-

tic events is the outbreak of war, War can provide a backdrop for

the campaign, existing mainly in the background of the action. It

can also help generate adventures, because people and places will

develop needs based on the conflict, such as.when a city cut off
from all supplies needs help, a plague started by the war ravages

the land, or.a shipment of arms needs guards. It can even involve

the PCs directly as they join one side or the other, acting as spies,
jasmnall strike force, or even commanders in the army.

During wartime, authorities may_restrict or even confiscate
materials and supplies—horses, food, weapons, vital ores, and
other equipment, Able-bodied people may be conscripted into the
ranks of the army. The PCs may find themselves unable to get the
equipment they require for an adventure, or may even find their
equipment—or themselves—confiscated by the authorities for
the war effort.

INVASION IN THE D&D GAME

A war staged in a fantasy world is similar to one fought in the real
world, but the fantastic elements of the setting—magic, heroes,
jand monsters—create some obvious differences in tactics that are
\reflected in the composition of the armies. In a war in the D&D
|game,an invasion force usually has several components: the army,
monsters, and the strike team.

‘The Army: If major invasion takes place, the invading army.is|
composed mainly of conscripts. These serve as skirmishers and,

infancry. More extensively trained professional soldiers with,
better equipment support the conscripts as infantry and archers.
Knights, cavalry, and units composed of wizards, sorcerers, and/or,
clerics fill specialized roles in the army.

Typical Conscript: A typical conscript is a 1st-level commoner

jwearing padded armor and carrying a wooden shield and a half-
spear. After a conscript has been dealt even one wound, even if he's
still above 0 hit points, he most likely drops to the ground and pre-
tends to be dead. Conscripts don't follow orders well, and they.,
soften break ranks and flee when the fight goes against them. ___,

Typical Soldier: Most soldiers are 1st-level warriors who wear,
studded leather armor and carry either a Small or Medium martial.
weapon (default to a longsword) and a wooden shield ora long-
bow. These soldiers are professionals or experienced conscripts,
from harsh lands where conflict is common. They're better trained |
and more likely to hold their ground and follow orders than typi-
cal conscripts.

Typical Mounted Soldier: A typical mounted soldier is a 1st-level

warrior wearing scale mail and bearing a light lance, a wooden,
shield, and 2 Medium martial weapon (default to a longsword).
These soldiers are always professionals, and they are among the
best trained typical warriors on the field. }

Knights and Spellcasters: Actual members of the fighter class are
rare on the battlefield. Typically, they wear chainmail or a breast-
plate and serve as. armed knights (though they may not hold a
title) and commanders. Just as rare as actual fighters are wizards,
sorcerers, or clerics present to provide magical support and fire-|
power, Well-funded and well-organized armies have small units of |
low-level spellcasters armed with wands or other magic items that,
allow them to execute multiple magical attacks. Other armies,
elect to have a single spellcaster with each unit of soldiers to.cast,
protective spells or supplement the soldiers’ attacks with offensiy:
spells. Clerics are particularly welcome additions to any army,,
since they wear armor without hampering their spellcasting and
wield weapons effectively in addition to casting spells They.can
also help heal the fallen. In fact, a small unit of clerics with wands
of cure light wounds is an effective second wave thatcan be assigned
to follow the main force into battle and heal the fallen, providing a
wave of reinforcements.

Monsters: Aerial cavalry on griffons or hippogriffs, charmed
monsters and animals, and summoned creatures frequent the
battlefield. Mounted lancers on elephants and triceratopses clash
with goblins riding worgs and orcs riding dire tigers. Dragons
circle the combar, their breath weapons decimating entire units of
soldiers at once.

The Strike Team: Exceptional characters of higher than tst
level serve their side in a special way. They assist the main army in
a battle, as mentioned above, as knights or magical support, or
they work in a mixed-class unit (similar to an adventuring party)
that confronts special threats such as enemy commanders, a
defender's strong points, charmed monsters, or their counterparts
on the opposite side. They can also form small strike teams that go
into.enemy_territory_to. take out commanders, destroy supply
storehouses, steal plans, weaken defenses, or perform any number
of other special missions. Having a party serve as a strike team is a
great way to get PCs involved in a war without having to.run end-
less huge battles at the forefront of the game session. (Although ,
such battles can be entertaining, they're just as useful to the cam-|
paign in general if they remain in the background.)

  

;

QTHER CALAMITIES. 1

Other major threats beyond war include earthquakes, large-scale |
storms (such as hurricanes), plagues, and famine, Like war, these,
calamities drain the resources of the common folk. They also
create dangerous and horrible situations that spark adventures
for PCs who seek to solve the problems or alleviate the suffering
of others.

 
