 

a simple nearby danger) held by.a monstrous being or beings
not native to the community,

Nonstandard: While the community may have a mayor or a
town council, the real power lies in other hands, Ir may center on
a guild—a formal organization of merchants, craftsmen, profes-|
sionals, thieves, assassins, or warriors who collectively wield great,
jinfluence. An aristocracy, in the form of one or more rich individ-)
juals with no political office, may exert influence through wealth.
\A prestigious aristocracy, such as a. group.of accomplished adyen-)
.turers, may_exert influence through their reputation and experi-/
ence. Wise elders may exert influence over those who respect
\their age, reputation, and perceived wisdom.

Magical: This type of power center can take the form of a
temple full of priests or a single sorcerer cloistered in a tower. A
wizard or cleric might be.the actual, official ruler of the town, or
she may just be someone with a great deal of influence.

Alignment of Power Centers

|The alignment of the ruler or rulers of a community need not con-|
form to the alignment of all or even the majority of the residents, ,
although this is usually the case. In any case, the alignment of the.
power center strongly shapes the residents’ daily lives. Due to
their generally organized and organizing narure, most power cen-
ters are lawful.

To randomly determine the alignment of a power center, roll
d% and refer to the table below. How.a power center of a given
valignment acts, or how it is perceived by the community, is dis-
[cussed following the table.

Power CENTER ALIGNMENT

1% Alignment d% Alignment
01-35 Lawful good 4 Chaotic neutral
3639 Neutral good 65-90 Lawful evil
40-41 Chaotic good 91-98 Neutral evil
42-61 Lawful neutral 29-100 Chaotic evil

62-63 True neutral,

Lawful Good: A community with a lawful good power center
usually has a codified set of laws, and most people willingly obey |
those laws. }

Neutral Good: A neutral good, power center rarely influences,
the residents of the community other than to help them when
they are in. need,

Chaotic Good: This sort of power center influences the
community by helping the needy and opposing restrictions on
freedom.

Lawful Neutral: A community with a Jawful neutral power
,center_has.a codified set of laws that are followed to the letter,
{Those in power usually insist that visitors (as well as residents’
jobey.all local rules and regulations.

True Neutral: This sort of power center rarely influences the

community. Those in power prefer to pursue their private goals.

Chaotic Neutral: This sort of power center is unpredictable,
influencing the community. in different ways at different times,

Lawful Evil: A. community with a lawful evil power center us-
ually has a codified set of laws, which most people obey our of fear
of harsh punishment. a

Neutral Evil: The residents of a community with a neutral evil
power center are usually oppressed and subjugated, facing a dire

_furure,

Chaotic Evil: The residents of acommunity witha chaotic evil
}power.center live in abject fear because of the unpredictable and
jhorrific situations continually placed upon them.

Cnflicting Power Centers
Ifa. community has more than one power center, and two or more}
of the power centers have opposing alignments (either good vs.

evilor Jaw_vs..chaos), they conflict in some way. Such conflict is.

not always.open, and sometimes the conflicting power centers,

grudgingly ger along.

For example, a small city contains a powerful chaotic good wiz-

ards’ guild but is ruled by.a lawful good aristocrat. The wizards are.
{sometimes exasperated by the strict laws imposed by the aristocrat
iruler and occasionally break or circumvent them when it serves
their (well-intentioned) purposes. Most of the time, though, a rep-
resentative from the guild takes their concerns and disagreements.

.to the aristocrat, who attempts to equitably resolve any.problems.,

Another example: A large city contains a powerful lawful evil
fighter, a lawful good temple, and a chaotic evil aristocrat, The self
ish aristocrat is concerned only with his own gain.and his de-
bauched desires. The fighter gathers a small legion of warriors,

hoping to oust the aristocrat and take control.of the city herself,

Meanwhile, the clerics of the powerful temple help the citizenry
.as.well as they can, never directly confronting the aristocrat but
jaiding and abetting those who suffer at his hands.

Community Authorities
I's often important to know who makes up the community's
authority structure. The authority structure does not necessarily
indicate who's in charge, bur instead who keeps order and
enforces the authority that exists. si
Constable/Captain of the Guard/Sheriff: This position gen-
erally devolves upon the highest-level warrior in.a community, or

one of the highest-level fighters. To randomly determine the class,

and level of a community's constable, roll ds and refer to the fol-
lowing table.

6% Officeholder
01-60 Highestevel warrior
61-80 Second highest-level fighter

81-100 Highest-level fighter

Use the tables in the next section to determine the constable’ level

Guards/Soldiers: For every 100 people in the community
(round down), the community has one full-time guard or soldier,
In addition, for every 20 people in the community, an able-bodied
member of the local militia or a conscript soldier can be brought
into service within just a few hours.

Other NPCs in the Community
For detailed city play, knowing exactly who lives in the commu-
nity becomes important. The following guidelines allow you to
determine the levels of the most powerful locals and then extrap-
olate from that to determine the rest of the classed characters
living there.

Highest-Level NPC in the Community for Each Class: Use
the following tables to determine the highest-level character in a
given class for a given community, Determine the appropriate
community modifier by consulting the first table below; then
refer.to the second table, roll the dice indicated for the class, and
apply the modifier to get.a result,

A result of 0 or lower for character level means that no charac-
ters of that kind can be found in the community, The maximum
level for any class is 20th.

Total Characters of Each Class
Use the following method for determining the levels of all the
characters in a community of any given class.

For PC classes, if the highest-level character indicated is 2nd!
level or higher, assume the community has twice that number of

characters of half thar level. If those characters are higher than 1st
jewel, assume that for each such character, the community has two
\of half thar level. Continue until the number of 1st-level charac-
ters is generated, For example, if the highest-level fighter is 5th
