 

deal mostly in gold, since they purchase whole ships and buildings Political Systems |

 

and finance caravans and even armies using such currency. The numberof possible political systems is nearly limitless, Feel
Some economies have other forms of currency, such as trade free.to.use more than one type for different lands. Such mixing |
bars or letters of credit representing various amounts of gold that and matching accentuates the differences in place and culture.
are backed by powerful governments, guilds, or other organiza-| _{__ Note that any of the political systems listed below might be
tions to insure their worth. Some economies even use coins of dif-, _j matriarchies (ruled only by.women) or patriarchies (ruled only by
ferent metals: electrum, iron, or even tin. In some lands, it's even} _jmen), but most make no such distinctions,
\permissible to cut a gold coin in half to make a separate unit of Monarchy: Monarchy is rule by a single leader. The monarch
[currency out of a half gold piece wields supreme power, sometimes even by divine right. Monarchs
} belong to royal bloodlines, and successors to rhe throne are almost
Taxes.and Tithes always drawn from blood relatives. Rarely, a monarch rules with}
(Taxes paid to the queen, the emperor, or the local baroness might power granted by a. mandate of the populace, usually established
consume as much as one-fifth of a character's wealth (although through representatives chosen by noble houses, The monarchy is
these expenses can vary considerably from land to land), Repre- likely to be the most common political system.in your campaign,
sentatives of the government usually collect taxes yearly, biannu- Monarchs often have advisors and a court of nobles. who. work
ally, or quarterly, Of course, as travelers, adventurers might avoid with them to administer the land. This arrangement creates. a class
ymost.collection periods (and so you can ignore taxes forthe PCsif_ {system of nobles and nonnobles, Common people in such.a land
jyou.want). Those who own land ora residence may find them-| _often do not have many of the rights and privileges of the nobility.
\selves assessed and taxed, however. 1 4 Tribal or Clan Structure: A tribe or clan usually has a single
Tithes are paid to the church by those who are faithful participants, —_Jeader who wields great—almost absolute—power like the mon-
in a religion. Tithes often amount to as much as one-tenth of a char- arch in a monarchy, Although rulership is.often drawn from a
acters adventuring earnings, but collection is voluntary except in _ single bloodline, rulers are chosen based on their fitness to govern,
strict, oppressive religions that have their own tithe collectors. Such They. are also continually judged on this criterion and replaced if
onerous religious taxation requires the support of the government. found wanting. Usually a.council of elders exists to choose and
judge the leader. In fact, the council is often convened only for this
Moneychangers purpose. Sometimes the council also advises the chief or leader.
Characters who find their saddlebags full of ancient coin or foreign Tribes exist asa social structure by grouping together otherwise
tmoney probably need to exchange their wealth for the local cur- disparate family units and uniting them for strength and the ad-
rency before they can spend any of it_In.a setting in which dozens vantages of working together. Clans are similar in function but
of small nations and kingdoms are crowded close together, the carry the added distinction of being extended family units In,
pmoneychanger is the person at the hub of the economic system. both cases, the group usually interacts with other tribes and clans,
(Typically, 2 moneychanger charges a fee of one-tenth of the and often has particular laws and customs about how certain clans.
{starting sum in order to convert currency. For example, if a.charac- within a tribe must interact or how the tribe must interact with
{rer has a pouch full of 100 platinum pieces (pp) that she needs to other tribes,
convert to gold pieces, the moneychanger charges 10 pp for the Feudalism: Feudalism is a complicated class-based system
conversion. The character receives 900 gp, andthe moneychanger. _ with successive layers of lieges and lackeys. It often exists under a
keeps the rest. monarchy. Serfs (peasants) work for a landed lord, who in.turn
owes fealty to a higher lord, who in turn owes fealty to an even
Supply and Demand } higher lord, and so on, until the line reaches the supreme liege
The law of supply and demand can drastically affect the value of any lord, who is usually a monarch.
currency, If characters start flashing around a lot of gold and pump-, The common people in.a feudal state are always lowly and with-
ing it into the local economy, merchants may quickly raise prices, out rights. They are virtually owned by their immediate liege.
This isnt a matter of gouging the rich—it's just the way a small___Lords are generally free to abuse their power and exploit those
economy.works, A tavernkeeper who makes 100 gp from boarding under them as they see fir.
a group of successful adventurers spends his newfound wealth just Republic: A republic is a system of government headed by
as the heroes did, and in a small town, everyone starts spending more politicians representing the people. The representatives of a
in a short time. More spending means higher consumption, so _republic rule as a single body, usually some sort of council or
goods and services become harder to come by, and prices increase. senate, which vores on issues and policies. Sometimes the repre-
Supply and demand can also affect the campaign in ways that sentatives are appointed, and sometimes they are elected. The wel-
dont have anything directly to do with gold. For instance, if the fare of the people depends solely on the level of corruption among.
{local lord commandeered most of the region's horses for his the representatives. In a mainly good-aligned republic, conditions
knights, then when the PCs decide to purchase half a dozen fine can be quite pleasant. An evil republic is as terrible a place to live
steeds, they find there arent any.to be had ar a reasonable price. asaland under the grip of a.tyrant.
They have to sertle for second-rate nags or spend much more In.an advanced republic, the people directly elect the represen-
than they had planned to in order to convince someone to part tatives. This type of republic is often called a democracy. In such
with a horse. lands, the right to vote becomes a class-based privilege. Citizen-
ship might be a status that can be bought or earned, it might be
POLITICS granted automatically ro those born in the location governed by
Intrigue between kingdoms, city-states at war, and political the republic, or it might only transfer via bloodline. Because}
«Maneuvering are all fun aspects of many campaigns, For your own having the entire populace vote on representatives is cumber-|
\campaign, you at least need to determine who is in charge where. ,some, this political system usually works only in small areas, such |
[if there's any chance thar rulers, nobility, and politics in general as a city-state, 4
hwill become more involved than that, use the following material Magocracy: Ina. magocracy, those who.wield arcane magic,
asa starting point, As always, research into real-world political sys- ,have.alarge amount of political power. The ruler is usually the
tems and structures (particularly historical examples) can enrich; —_, most powerful wizard or sorcerer in the land, although sometimes
your fictional setting. At the same time, dont be afraid to make up. ithe ruler is merely.a member of a.royal bloodline who must be an

something wholly new and completely nonhistorical | “arcane spelicaster. Thus, such a system could be a monarchy, and
