A local ruler could have a phobia about a specific effect or spell
(such as polymorph effects if she were afraid of being impersonated)
and enact a law restricting that type of magic,

RELIGION
No force affects society more strongly than religion. You need to,
match the religions in your world with the societies you present.
How does the priesthood interact with the populace? What do most
people think of the religion, the deity, or the clerics? Most of the time, )
in addition to serving a deity, a religion is geared toward filling some}
niche in society: recordkeeping, officiating at ceremonies, judging,
disputes, tending the poor or sick, defending the community, educat-
ing the young, keeping knowledge, preserving customs, and so on.
Sometimes a religious hierarchy is not unified. You can create
interesting political intrigues by placing different factions of cler-
ics of the same deity in opposition based on doctrine or approach
(or evenalignment), Different orders within the priesthood might
ibe distinguished by different choices of domains. A deity that of-
fers access to the Good, Knowledge, Law, and War domains might,
|have clerics of law and war (the justifiers) opposing those of good |
and knowledge (the prophets).

The Pantheon and the Campaign Setting
Asan example, here's how the religions of the deities presented in
the Player's Handbook fit into society.

Boccob: Boccob’s priesthood is usually a somber group that
takes its pursuit of knowledge and arcana very. seriously. The cler-
ics of the Archmage of the Deities wear purple robes with gold
trim, Rather than meddle in public affairs and politics, they keep
to themselves and their own agendas.

Corellon Larethian: Clergy members.who serve the Cre-

lator of the Elves operate as defenders and champions of their
race. They often serve as leaders and settle disputes in elven
communities,

Ehlonna: The clergy of Ehlonna are hearty.woodsfolk. Her
clerics wear pale green robes and are quick to protect the wood-
lands against all threats,

Erythnul: The priesthood of Erythnul maintains a low profile
in most civilized lands. In savage areas, members of the priesthood.
are known as bullies and murderous tyrants, Many_evil)
humanoids worship Erythnul, but their priests do not cooperate ,
with each other to advance the overall goals of the religion. Clerics
of Erythnul favor rust-red garments or blood-stained robes.

Fharlanghn: Fharlanghn’ clerics are wanderers who seek to
help fellow travelers, Fharlanghn’s clerics dress in nondescript
brown orgreen clothing, and they move around frequently. A trav-
eler who.comes to one of Fharlanghn’s wayside shrines, which are
common along most well-used roads, wont find a particular cleric
watching over a particular shrine more than once.

Garl Glittergold: Clerics of Garl Glittergold serve gnome com-
munities as educators and protectors. They teach the young valu-
able gnome lore and skills uising a light-handed humor. They also
protect their fellow. gnomes, ever watchful of the forces of evil
humanoids that might threaten their community.

Gruumsh: Gruumsh, the evil god of the orcs, maintains a reli-
gion based on intimidation and fear. His clerics strive to become
chieftains of orc tribes or advisors to the chief. Many pluck out
one of their own eyes to emulate their deity.

Heironeous: The religious hierarchy of Heironeous is organ-
ized like a military order. Inhasaclear.chain of command, lines of
supply, and well-stocked armories. Clerics of Heironeous fight

{against worshipers of Hextor whenever they can and spend the rest
of their time protecting the civilized lands from the threats of evil.

Hextor: Strength and power govern. Hextor's priesthood. Al-
though evil, itis not as secretive as other dark religions. Temples of
Hextor operate openly in many cities. Clerics of Hextor wear
black clothing adorned with skulls or gray faces.

 

Kord: Kord’s clerics value strength, but not domination. Kord’|
temples sometimes resemble warrior feasthalls, and his clerics,|
who fayor red and white garb, often seem more like fighters,

Moradin: Moradin‘s clerics preside over most formal cere-
ymonies in dwarven culture, keep genealogical records, educate
the young, and serve as.part.of the defense force of a community,

Nerull: The Reaper is feared across the lands, His rust-red
garbed clerics are murderous psychopaths who work in secret,
plotting against all that is good. They have no overall. hierarchy
.and they even work against each other at times.

Obad-Hai: Clerics of Obad-Hai have no hierarchy, They treat,
all those of their order as equals. They wear russet-colored cloth-
ing and maintain hidden woodland shrines that are usually
located far from civilization. They keep to the wilderness and to,
themselves, rarely getting involved in society,

Olidammara: Olidammara’s religion is loosely organized at.
best, and few temples are dedicated solely to him. That said, his
{clerics are numerous. They usually work among urban folk or,
\wander the countryside. Olidammana’s clerics often work at some
lother profession, in addition to operating as clerics (typically serv-

ing as minstrels, brewers, or jacks-of-all-trades), and thus can. be.
found almost anywhere doing or weating anything.

Pelor: The clerics of the Shining One work.to aid the poor and!
the sick, and thus most common folk look upon them swith great
favor, Pelor's temples are sanctuaries for the impoverished and dis-
eased, and his yellow-robed clerics are usually kind, quiet folk,
roused only in their opposition against evil,

St. Cuthbert; The no-nonsense order of St. Cuthbert does not}
suffer fools gladly or abide evil in any way, His clerics concern.
themselves with the needs of the common people over nobles or,
the well educated, They are zealous in their desire to convert)
others to their faith and quick to destroy their opponents.

Veena: Vecna's priesthood is made up of isolated cells of cultists,
who seek dark, arcane secrets to further their evil schemes, Black
and red are the clerics’ favored colors.

Wee Jas: Wee Jas's priesthood has a strict hierarchy. Her clerics
are known for their discipline and obedience to their superiors.
They work as officiators at funerals, maintain graveyards, or oper-
ate libraries of arcane lore. They wear black or gray robes.

Yondalla: Yondalla’s clerics help other halflings lead safe, pros-
perous lives by following her guidance. They often serve as com-
munity leaders.

 

Creating New Deities
You can create your own deities and religions. You're free to set
them up however you please. Deities can exist as individuals or as
a unified pantheon that interacts all the time.

Each deity should have a portfolio, which describes a sphere or
spheres of influence. Elements of a portfolio can be concepts such
as peace or death, events such as war or famine, elements such a5
fire or water, activities such as travel or entertainment, types of
people or professions such as wizards or smiths, as well as races,
alignments, places,.or outlooks, Deities with similar portfolios
may.work together or may be in conflict, depending on their
alignments and respective power.

The domains that a cleric of a deity can choose from should.
always be based on the deity’s portfolio. In general, it's appropriate |
to assign no more than four domains to any deity. However, some |
deities might need more that four domains to represent the}
breadth of their dominion, while others might need just two or)

three, if they are very focused, 4

Polytheism isthe assumption inthe baseline Dunceons & |
Daacons setting. You could create a monotheistic world, but.al
strong, singular religion probably wields great political and socio-
logical power (such as what occurred in Europe during the Dark
Ages), which is.a.change with serious implications that might
ripple throughout your entire campaign setting.

 
