 

TABLE 5-5: MODERN Era WEAPONS

Exotic Weapons (Firearms) Dmg (5) Dmg (M) Critical Range Increment Weight Damage Type
One-Handed Ranged Weapons
Pistol, automatic 244 2d6 x2 40 ft. 3b. Piercing
Revolver 2d6 2d8 x2 30 ft. 3 lb. Piercing
Two-Handed Ranged Weapons
Rifle, hunting 248 2410 x2 80. ft. Bib. Piercing
Rifle, automatic 246 2d8 x2 80 ft 8b. Piercing
Shotgun 2d6 208 2 30 ft. 7b. Piercing
Grenade launcher , — 70 ft 7.Ib. ~
1 Fires fragmentation grenades or smoke grenades; see the Explosive Weapons table, below.

Explosive Weapons! Damage Blast Radius Range Increment Weight Damage Type
Dynamite 306? 52 lof. Vib, Bludgeoning
Grenade, fragmentation 4d6 20 ft. 10 ft. 1b. Slashing
Grenade, smoke Smoke 20 ft. 10 ft. 2b. =-

1 Dynamite and grenades require no proficiency to. use.
2 See description.
TasLe 5—6: Futuristic WEAPONS
Exotic Weapons (Firearms) Ding (5) Omg (M) Critical Range Increment Weight Damage Type
(One-Handed Ranged Weapons
Laser pistol 304 3d6 x2 40 ft. 2Ib, -
Two-Handed Ranged Weapons
Antimatter rifle &d6 648 2 120 ft. 10 Ib. -
Flamer 34’ 306! - 20 f. Bib. Fire
Laser rifle 3d6 308, 2 100 ft. 7b. -

|1.See description.

The d20 Manxan* Roleplaying Game, a D&D-compatible role-
tplaying game for present-day adventures, contains a much more
\extensive treatment of firearms and other high-tech gear.

Modern Era Firearms: Firearms should be treated like other
\ranged projectile weapons. The Exotic Weapon Proficiency

(firearms) feat gives a creature proficiency with.all firearms; other-
wise, a—4 penalty is assessed on all attack rolls.

Ammunition; Modern era firearms use bullets essentially similar
to those used in Remaissance firearms. Ten bullets weigh 1 pound,_
and a magazine that holds bullets for an automatic weapon weighs |
1/2 pound. 4

The new weapons on Table 5-5; Modern Era Weapons are.
detailed below.

Pistol, Automatic: An automatic pistol can fire fifteen times
before reloading and can be used to attack mote than once per
round if the user has the ability to make multiple attacks. Releas-
ing an empty magazine and inserting a new one is a move action.

Pistol, Revolver: A revolver can fire six times before it needs
,teloading (which requires a full-round action).

Rifle, Hunting: A hunting rifle can fire five times before it needs
}teloading (which requires a full-round action)

Rifle, Automatic: An automatic rifle can fire thirty times before it
needs reloading. Releasing an empty magazine and inserting a
new one is a move action..As an_attack, an automatic rifle can
instead spray a space 10 feet across with ten bullets, If the attacker
succeeds on an attack roll against AC 10, everyone in that space
must make a DC 15 Reflex save or take the weapon's damage.

Shotgun: A shotgun is mosteffective at close range; on any suc-
cessful attack, a—1 penalty is applied to the damage rolll for each
range increment of the attack, It can fire six times before it needs

jreloading (which requires a full-round action), The weapon uses
:shotgun shells, cylindrical cartridges thar have a built-in firing cap
jat their base. They are packed with amixture of gunpowder and.
jsmall lead pellets.

Grenade Launcher: A grenade launcher can fire fragmentation or.
smoke grenades using its range increment, but must be reloaded
each time it fires, requiring a standard action. A grenade launcher}
isa tube set on a metal tripod and equipped with a sighting mech-|

anism. A single smoke grenade or fragmentation grenade easily
slips into the rube.

Modern Era Explosive Weapons: These explosive grenade-
like weapons work just like Renaissance grenadelike weapons (see |
above). for determining how attacks are made and what happens if.
the weapon misses its target.

Dynamite: This short, thin cylinder of explosive material has a
fuse that must be lit before ir is thrown or set. Lighting a stick of
dynamite is a move action, and the dynamite goes off in the same
round or up to several minutes later (depending on how long the
fuse is). The explosive has.a blast radius of 5 feet and deals 246
points of bludgeoning damage. Anyone caught within the blast
radius can make a DC 15 Reflex save to take half damage.

Ir's possible to bind together several sticks of dynamite so they
ignite and explode at the same.time. Each additional stick in-
creases the damage by 1dé (maximum damage 10d6) and the burst
radius by 5 feet (maximum burst radius 20 feet).

Grenade, Fragmentation: A fragmentation grenade looks like a
large egg, sometimes mounted on a 1-foot-long stick with small
fins. If thrown, it uses its range increment, but if launched from a
gtenade launcher, it uses that weapon's range increment. Frag-
mentation grenades are advanced antipersonnel explosives that
deal slashing damage in a 20-foot radius. Anyone caught within
the blast.radius. can make.a DC15 Reflex save to take half damage.

Grenade, Smoke; A smoke grenade looks like a squat cylinder,
sometimes mounted on a 1-foot-long stick with small fins, If
thrown, it uses its range increment, but if launched from a
grenade launcher, it uses that weapon's range increment. One
round after it lands or hits its target, this nondamaging explosive ,
emits a cloud of smoke (as the fog cloud spell) in # 20-foot radius. A}
moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the smoke in 4 rounds; a
strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog in 1 round. 4

Futuristic Weapons; Futuristic weapons are like other ranged |
projectile weapons, though the type of damage they deal is special. |
\The Exotic Weapon Proficiency (fururistic) feat gives a creature

jproficiency with all fururistic weapons; otherwise, a—4 penalty is
jassessed on all attack rolls.

The new weapons on Table 5-6: are detailed below.
