d% Effect "Spellcasters on the plane are considered to have that feat or feats

01-19 Spell rebounds on caster with normal effect. If the spell for the purpose of applying them to that spell. Spellcasters native |
‘cannot affect the caster, it simply fails. tothe plane must gain the feat or feats normally if they wantro.use
20-23 A circular pit 15 feet wide opens under the caster’s feet; it is them .on other planes as well.
10 feet deep per level of the caster. .. 4. Forexample, spells with the fire descriptor are maximized. and.
24-27 The spell fails, but the target or targets of the spell are jenlarged on the Elemental Plane of Fire. Wizards on this plane
pelted with a rain of small objects (anything from flowersto|. {can prepare maximized, enlarged versions of their fire spells
rotten fruit), which disappear upon striking. The barrage even if they don't have the Maximize Spell and Enlarge Spell
continues for 1 round, During this time the targets are } feats, and they use the same spell slots they would to cast these
blinded and must make Concentration checks (DC 15+ | _,spells normally (nort_maximized or enlarged) on the Material)
spell level) to cast spells, [Plane. Sorcerers on this plane can cast maximized, enlarged fire
28-31 The spell affects a random target or area. The DM should spells without using higher-level slots, and it takes them no extra
randomly choose a different target from among those in time to do so,
range of the spell.or.center the spell at a random place Limited Magic: Planes with this trait permit only the use of
within range of the spell. To generate direction randomly, spells and spell-like abilities that meet particular qualifications.
roll 1d8 and count clockwise around the compass, starting Magic can be limited to effects from certain schools or subschools,

i __with south. To generate range randomly, roll 346, Multiply toeffects with certain descriptors, or to effects of a certain level (or

\ the result by S feet for close range spells, 20 feet for 4. Jany.combination of these qualities). Spells and spell-like abilities.

t medium.range spells, or 80 feet for long range spells. |. jthardonit meer the qualifications simply dont work +

| 32-38 The spell functions normally, but any material components
are not consumed. The spell is not expended from the HOW PLANES INTERACT
caster’s mind (a spell slot or prepared spell can be used By definition, planes are infinite or near-infinite expanses,
again). An item does not lose charges, and the effect does whether they are flat worlds, layered vaults, or spheres hanging in
not count against an item's or spell-like ability's use limit, space. How, then,can they interact with each other?

36-39 The spell does not function. Instead, everyone (friend or foe) As a metaphor, imagine the various planes of a cosmology float-
within 30 feet of the caster receives the effect of a heal spell. ing near each other in a three-dimensional constellation or clus-

, 40-43 The spell does not function. Instead, a deeper darkness and a ter. They are not necessarily “above” or “below:" each other, though,
silence effect cover a 30-foot radius around the caster for there is a social tendency to call good-aligned planes “upper” |

t 2d4 rounds, planes and evil-aligned planes “lower” planes, What is important]

,.44-47__The spell does not function, Instead, a reverse gravity effect to the D&D cosmology is whether two given planes are separate,

t covers a 30-foot radius around the caster for ]_round, coterminous,.or coexistent,

. 48-51. The spell functions, but shimmering colors swirl around the Separate Planes; Iwo planes that are separate do not overlap or |
caster for 1d4 rounds. Treat this a glitterdust effect with a directly connect to.each other. They are like planets in different,
save DC of 10 + the level of the spell that generated this orbits. Any Outer Plane, for example, has no direct connection
result. with the Material Plane. The two planes are separate, and the only

52-59._Nothing happens, The spell does not function. Any material way to get from one plane to the other is to go. through a third
components are used up. The spell or spell slat is.used up, plane, such as the Astral Plane.
and charges or uses from an item are used up. Coterminous Planes: Planes that touch at specific points are
60-71) Nothing happens. The spell does not function. Any material) _ coterminous. Where they touch, a connection exists, and travelers
components are not consumed. The spell is not expended can leave one reality behind and enter the other. It's possible, for
from the caster’s mind (a spell slot or prepared spell canbe, _ example, to sail from Hades to the Abyss on the River Styx.
used again). An item does not lose charges, and the effect Coexistent Planes: If a link between two planes can be cre-
does not count against an item’s or spell-like ability's use ated at any point, the two planes are coexistent. These planes
limit. overlap.each other completely. A coexistent plane can be reached
72-98 The spell functions nocmally. from anywhere on the plane it overlaps. When moving on a coex-
99-100 The spell functions strongly. Saving throws against the spell istent plane, it is often possible to see into or interact with the
incut a -2 penalty. The spell has the maximum possible effect, plane it coexists with. The Ethereal Plane is coexistent with the
as if it were cast with the Maximize Spell feat, If the spell is Material Plane, and inhabitants of the Ethereal Plane can see into
already maximized with the feat, there is no further effect. the Material Plane. With the right magic, inhabitants of the
a Material Plane can likewise see and interact with those on the
Impeded Magic: Particular spells and spell-like abilities are Ethereal Plane (see invisibility and magic missile, for example, both
more difficult to cast.on planes with this trait, often because the affect rhe Ethereal Plane),
nature of the plane interferes with the spell, Fireball spells may be
caston the Elemental Pane of Water, but the opposing marursof THE D&D COSMOLOGY
the spell and the plane makes ir difficult. The D&D cosmology is structured as follows.
To cast an impeded spell, the caster must make a Spellcraft The Material Plane is at its center.
check (DC 20 + the level of the spell). If the check fails, the spell The Plane of Shadow and the Ethereal Plane are coexistent.with,
does not function but is still lost.as.a prepared spellor spellslot.1f the Material Plane. All planes, including the Plane of Shadow and.
the check succeeds, the spell functions normally. the Ethereal Plane, are coexistent with the Astral Plane, which
Enhanced Magic: Particular spells and spell-like abilities are envelops the whole cosmology like a cloud.

,easier. to use_or more powerful in effect on planes with this trait . The six Inner Planes surround the Material Plane, They are. sep-| }

jthan.they are.on the Material Plane. arate from the Material Plane.and from_each other (they do not)

4__Narives of a plane with the enhanced magic trait are aware of -have connections between them). They are cach coexistent with |

j which spells and spell-like abilities are enhanced, but planar trav- ithe Astral Plane. Each of the Inner Planes has the appropriate ele-

elers may. have to discover this on their own. imental or energy trait.
Ifa spellis.enhanced, certain metamagic feats can be appliedto| _|_The Outer Planes are arranged in a great wheel around the

it without changing the spell slot required or the casting time.| Material Plane, Each Outer Plane is coterminous to the planes on

 
