 

shoot through them at incredible speed. The layer of Phlegethon INFINITE LAYERS OF THE ABYSS

is an exception—there, the normal gravity trait applies,

Divinely morphic. Specific powerful beings such as the deity
Erythnul can alter Pandemonium. Ordinary creatures find
Pandemonium indistinguishable from the Material Plane (it,
has the alterable morphic trait for them, in other words), Spells |
and physical effort affect Pandemonium normally, I
Mildly chaos-aligned,

| Random Encounters: Use the Abyssal Encounters table (page|
167) for random encounters in Pandemonium.

Example Pandemonium Site; Howler’s Crag
Howler's Crag is a jumbled pile of stones, boulders, and worked
stone, as if a giant's palace had collapsed in on itself, standing in
the center of Cocytus, The Crag’s top is a mostly level platform
about 10 feet in diameter, with a low wall surrounding it. The plat-
jform and those.on it glow with an ephemeral blue radiance, The
slower reaches of the Crag are riddled with small burrows. Some}
\are.dead ends, bur others connect, The wall of every burrow is coy-)
Jered with writing in lost alphabets that supposedly spells out)
strange psalms, liturgies, and strings of numerals or formulas.

Natives of Pandemonium say that anything yelled aloud from
the top of the Crag finds the ears of the intended recipient, no
matter where that recipient is on the Great Wheel. The words of
the message are borne ona shrieking, frigid wind.

Demons of various sorts have learned that visitors constantly
itrickle to the Crag, The visitors are usually archaeologists, divin-
jers, or those wishing to send a message to some Jost friend or
lenemy. Most become the prey of the ambushing fiends.

Howler’s Crag is large enough to provide its own gravity; char-
jacters can simply walk up it without needing to climb, To make an
[encounter map for Howler’s Crag, draw it as if the Crag were the
{floor (covered in dense rubble; see page 90), Include anumber of
tburrows, which are each 10 feet in diameter. The fiends that

svaylay travelers (often hezrous and nalfeshnees) will emerge from
the burrows when they sense the presence of visitors.

As elsewhere on Pandemonium, a fight on Howler’s Crag takes
place among strong winds. Attacks with ranged weapons have a~2.
penalty due to the winds, and.a Tiny or smaller creature must suc-
ceed on a DC 10 Fortitude save each round or be knocked down. |

Sometimes the winds that buffet Howler’s Crag are even more.
powerful. For the effects of strongerwinds on combat, see page 95

The Abyss is all rhat is ugly, all thar is evil, and all that is chaotic)
reflected in infinite variety through layers beyond counting. Its
virtually endless layers spiral downward into ever more atrocious
iforms. Conventional wisdom places the number of layers of the
LAbyss at 666, though there may be far more. The whole point of
ithe Abyss, after all, is that it's far more terrible than conventional
wisdom could ever encompass.
Each layer of the Abyss has its own unique, horrific environ-
sment. No theme unifies. the multifarious layers.other than their
harsh, inhospitable nature. Lakes of caustic acid, clouds of nox-}
ious fumes, caverns of razor-sharp spikes, and landscapes of
magma are all possibilities. So are less immediately deadly. ter-
rains such as parched salt deserts, subtly poisonous winds, andj
plains of biting insects, {
The Abyss is home to demons, creatures deyored to death and
jdestruction, A demon in the Abyss looks upon visitors as food ora
{source of amusement. Some see powerful visitors as potential
4xecruits (willing or not) in the never-ending war that pits demons
Tagainst devils, known as the Blood War.
The Abyss has the following traits.
Normal gravity. The top layer of the Abyss (called the Plain of
Infinite Portals) and many.other layers have the normal. grav:
ity trait, bur other layers of the Abyss can contain different
gravity traits. é
* Normal time. Time flows at the same rate in the Abyss as. on the
Material Plane. However, rumors persist.of a Jayer where time.
flows backward with regard to aging, The reverse flow is erratic,
however, and a visitor could be reverse-aged to childhood or
out of existence altogether.
Divinely morphic, Entities at least as powerful as lesser deities}
can alter the Abyss, Less powerful creatures find the Abyss|
indistinguishable. froma normal Material Plane (the alrerable
morphic trait) in that the plane can be changed by spells and
physical effort.
Mixed elemental and energy traits. This trait varies widely. from
layer to layer. In the Abyss as a whole, no one elementor type of
energy constantly dominates, though certain layers have a domi-
nant element or energy, ora. mixture. of two or more,
* Mildly chaos-aligned and mildly evil-aligned,
Random Encounters: Use the Abyssal Encounters table (page
167) forrandom encounters.in.the Abyss.

 
