 

good can hunt a white stag, for the stag knows the consequences”

and is willing to be prey. But white stags dont give themselves up.
They take great glee in using their wiles and unparalleled knowl-
edge of the forest to confound hunters from other planes. No crea-

tures native to the Beastlands will artack a white stag. Instead, they.|

turn on the hunters with unbridled ferocity.
‘The antlers of a white stag stretch wide enough that it's possible |
|to fashion a composite longbow out of them using the Craft (bow:|

(making) skill (making checks against DC 30). Such a bow is consid: |
,ered of masterwork quality, and magical enhancements placed on,

ithe bow cost 10% less because the antlers have an affinity for magic.
To draw an encounter map fora Karasuthra hunter's glen, use

_the medium forest guidelines (see page 87). Simple three- and
four-room lodges scattered throughout the forest offer visitors a
measure of protection from the creatures outside.

QLYMPIAN GLADES OF ARBOREA

jArhorea is.a.crazy.quilt of climates and environments, all of which
\thrive. The plane.contains great woods of towering maples, birch,|.

land oak, These great deciduous trees strain skyward, leaving a forest,
‘floor relatively free of undergrowth and brush. The ground beneath |
the canopy itself is a rolling landscape of velvet moss and ferns. The
forestscape sometimes retreats before open glades of wildflowers,
fields of swaying wheat and barley, and neat rows of fruit trees
untended by any hand. Here are trees that have never seen the
woodsman’s axe, fields rich with grain, and orchards heavy with fruit.
The very air of Arborea seems charged with anticipation and
jexcitement. Sudden squalls brew up out of nowhere, beating the
}tree-lined paths with heavy winds. They pass within minutes and
leave behind warm, sunny arcs of light filtering through the forest
,canopy, In the distance there always seems to. be music; sometimes
ithe elves and the fey are playing, but just as often the faint rune is
ymerely the wind curling through the boles of the great trees.
| Arborea is a place with flowers in bloom and trees bearing fruit
simultaneously. The uplands are covered with snow, shining beneath
acrystal-blue sky. Arborea is almost overwhelming in its beauty, and
the land.embodies both wilderness and loveliness in. one package.
Only the top layer of Arborea, Arvandor, has the great forest
implied in the name of the plane. Aquallor, Arborea’s second layer,
is an endless ocean, and its third layer, Mithardir, is a borderless
desert of white dust.
Arborea has the following traits
Divinely morphic. Deities can. change the traits of the plane and
remake the landscape; mortals must use spells and physical
effort to. change their environment.
Mildly good-aligned and mildly chaos-aligned.
Random Encounters: Use the Beatific Encounters table (page
+167) for random encounters in Arborea.

Example Arborea Site; Canopy City

|The celestial elves of Atvandor live in great treehouse cities
among massive redwoods, There they hunt, celebrate, and live the
idealized elven life. But they treasure their society with such
inrensity that they're quick to turn on intruders, A single careless
word can turn the speaker into a pincushion of elven arrows.
The canopy cities are not home to elves alone. Many elves ride
celestial giant owls from place to place, and many fey are welcome
in the treetop city. While the trees support the city, some treants live
in the canopy city as well—a surprise to visitors who try to take a
,shortcut. A canopy city is. considered a large city (see page 137).
To.draw an_encounter map for a canopy city, use the buildings
}from the Urban Features section (see page 99), but construct them
tof wood and attach them to tree trunks from 30 feet to 60 feet in
\diameter, Rather than use roads and alleys to connect them, string
together rope bridges, wooden bridges, ladders, and stairs, Make

the bridge-and-stairs network complicared—the elves like it that,

way.and it'll make for more interesting encounters,

CONCORDANT DOMAIN OF THE OUTLANDS
The Outlands is unique among the Outer Planes because it bor-|
ders all orher Outer Planes, As a result, it is the common ground
for extraplanar creatures, Beings from infernal and celestial,

splanes, as well as those of law and chaos, can be found here. In
daddition, deities of truc neutrality and those associated with ideals
jsuch as scholarship or nature have their realms here,
The Outlands is an infinitely large wheel with a great spire
rising from its center. Qutlanders consider this towering cylindri-,
cal plinth as the heart of the Outer Planes.and the axle around,
which the Great Wheel is centered. This great plinth is clearly vis-|
ible from anywhere in the plane; it rises above the clouds them-
selves and ascends into unreachable heavens. Sigil, the City of
Doors, floats at the top of the spire.
The plane isa broad region of varied terzain, with open praities,|
towering mountains, and twisting, shallow rivers. Settlements
{throughout the area are inhabited by a variety of refugees and
Jnatives of the plane. But they are small flecks against the greater
\wildness of the Outlands.

The Outlands has the following traits.

Divinely morphic. This trait disappears close to the center of

the plane, and in thar area even deities are affected by the nature,

of the plane.

Mildly neutraLaligned. Unlike on the other Outer Planes, all

alignments are equally welcome on the Outlands,

Normal. magic, impeded magic, and limited magic. The

Outlands has the normal magic trait far from its central spire,

but as one approaches the hub of the plane, spells, spell-like |

abilities, and even supernatural powers are further and further,
restricted. Where the surface of the plinth is_near_vertical,
almost no abilities (and few deity-level powers) function.

Far from the spire, magic functions normally, At about 4. 100)

miles from the base of the spire, the impeded magic trait begins,

impeding 9th-level spells unless the caster succeeds on. a DC 35

Spellcraft check. Closer to the base of the spire, spells of lower levels

are also impeded in this manner, according to the table below.

Distance impeded Limited
from Spire Spells Spells __ Other Effects
More than None None None

1,100 mi.

1,100 mi. 9th None. None.

1,000 mi. 8th-9th_ = None None

900 mi. 7th-Sth Sth All creatures gain irsmunity
to poison

800 mi, —-Gth-9th_—Bth-9th_—_—Psionic spell-like abilities
don't function

700 mi,__5th-8th _7th-9th__ Positive and negative energy
can't be channeled

600 mi. 4th-9th 6th-9th Supernatural abilities don't
function

500 mi 3rd-Sth___ Sth-9th__Access to the Astral Plane
prohibited

400 mi. 2nd-Sth —4th-9th_—_—Diivine powers of demigod
rank and lower annulled

300 mi, All 3rd—9th Divine powers of lesser deity
rank and lower annulled.

200 mi. All 2nd-9th Divine powers of |
intermediate deity rank and
lower annulled

100. mi,__All All All divine powers annulled

The limited magic trait starts to emerge at 900 miles away from |
the center of the plane, making 9th-level spells and spell-like
seffects unavailable. Closer to the center, more and more abilities
scannot be used, and finally even deity-level powers are affected.
Extraordinary abilities are never affected by this trait.
