 
   

Wararor & Wizard

 
 
    
 
   
  
  
      
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
  

At wartiar’s anwar can conse

SF SGab eek Geese beable
hs

   
  

 

fF will S-flect's

eal scat

beth with
ht §.
is ht Sars Seager . -

Fe: el te wrualy
5 4

rade of metaliaad woes,

landican step phurical

quiver of

 

ontained within this chapter are a number of options for
PCsand NPGS alike, including alternative ability
ww classes.

 

   

generation systems, new races, and
vided here are rules for improving cha
iars, and epic characters

acters; new famil

   

Tn addition to the standard method for genérating ability scores
presented in the Payer'*Handbook (roll 4d6, discard the lowest die,
and arrange asdesired), here are eight options you might want to
consider using in your campaign.

1. Standard Point Buy: All ability scores start at’, Take 25
points'to spread out amongall abilities. For ability scc
lower you buy additional points ona 1-for-t basis. For ability
scotes higher thatia4; it costs'a little more (see the table below
This method allows for maximum customization, but you should
expeet each PC to Haveat least one really good score.

Asitity Score Point Costs

 

Ability Point Ability Point
Score Cost Score Cost
9 1 na 6
10 2 15, 8
* n 3 16 10
12 4 1 3
3 5 18 16
i 2. Nonstandard. Point Buy: Use the standard point buy

method/ except that the player has fewer or more points for
yeerbuying scores, as shown on the table below,

Dye wade were i x tall

q POST fogs 8 op Sos

Fred variewt

 

 

 

4

  
     

 

pens Ty Sem]

|

 

=

 

Type of Campaign Points Allowed
Low-powered campaign 15 points
Challenging campaign 22 paiiits
Tougher campaign 28 points
powered caripaign 32. points

3 Elite Array; Use the following Scores, arranged’as
desired!15,14, 13,12) 10, and & These numbers (assuming
they're assigned to abilities in an appropriate way) pro-
duce characters with at least a decent score in every abil
ity that’s important to the character's class. This method
is faster than the standatd point buy method and! ts good
for creating charactets quickly: In fact, irs the method
we used to gerierate ability scores for the sample NPCs
in Chapter 4/of thishook.

4. The Floating Reroll: Roll 4dé six times, discard.
ing the lowest die agh-time: Once during this process,
the player can terolf the lowest die instead. Arrange
scores as desired. This method results in slightly
beérten.characters than the!standatd Player's Handbook
methodidoes, allowing players to eitherimprove a
particularly bad score or try to get a very good Score.
For example, if the player tolled 4d6 and got results
of 1/2, 6, and 6 fora Score of14, she mightchoose to
reroll the 1 to seedf she could improve the score
(and possibly eyen get an 18 if the reroll came up 6).

5. Organic Characters: Roll 4d6 six times, discard-
ing the lowest die each time. Place in order (Str, Dex,
Con, Int, Wis, Cha) as‘rolled. Reroll any one ability
score of your choice, taking the new rollifir's
higher. Then switch any-twe-ability-scoreseThis

 

 

XIS YdLdVHO

 

 

 

*
