 

Monsters as Races

While every monster in the Monster Manual has the statistics that a
player would need to play the creature as.a character, most monsters
are not suitable as PCs, The following table lists monsters that are
easy, difficult, and very difficult to incorporate into a campaign as|
PCs. Use these lists as guidelines, but dont allow players to_play,
creatures who haye.an Intelligence score of 2 or lower, who have no}
\way.to communicate, or-who are so different from other PCs that
{they disrupt the campaign. (The creatures in the Difficult and Very |
Difficult sections of the table, for example, are too problematic for)
most.campaigns.) Some crearures have strange innate abilities or
\great physical power, and thus are questionable at best as characters
(except in high-level campaigns). For example, « hill giant dishes
out great amounts of damage,and a PC playing a beholder, with its
array of magical powers, would be quite unbalancing. Even some
feature as seemingly innocuous as wings should be considered care-
fully. The ability co fly can circumvent interesting encounters at
lower levels (particularly outdoors), and it makes skills such as}
|Climb.and Jump meaningless. You should not allow such creatures ,
jas PCs until the other characters are at a level (around 5th to 7th),
when magical means of flight become common.

 

Monsters As RACES

Easy (Few Strange Powers)
Level Level
Race Adjustment Race Adjustment
, Goblin +0 Tiefling 4
+ Kobold +0 Centaur +2
| Ore +0 Githyankl +2
|Aasimar +1 Githzerai 2
| Bugbear +1 Elf, drow 2
| Dwarf, duergar + Ogre +2
. Goll “1 Minotaur +2
Hobgoblin 41 Troglodyte #2
Lizardfolk 4 Gnome, svirfneblin 43
Difficult (Strange Powers or Limitations) =
Level Level
Race Adjustment Race Adjustment__
Lycanthrope, afflicted? +2 lycanthrope, natural? 43
Satyr +2 Pixie +4
Yuan-ti, pureblood +2 Gargoyle +s
Kuo-toa +3 Troll +5
Very Difficult.
(Unusual Size or Powers that Circumvent Many Challenges)
Level
Race Adjustment Race Adjustment
_ Drider 4 Mind flayer +7
(Hill giant +4 Ogre mage +7
Janni +8 Vampire? +8

Yuan-ti, halfblood _+5.

1 Choose a common.race for the base creature's race.

2 Natural lycanthropes. have an_effective character level (ECL) of 2+
animal form HD +class levels.

Starting Level of a Monster PC; The table above gives the
level adjustment for several monsters. Add a monster's level
adjustment to its Hit Dice and class levels to get the creature's

effective character level, or ECL Effectively, monsters swith a level
jadjustment become multiclass characters when they take class
Hevels. Characters with more than 1 Hit Die because of their race
ido not get a feat for their first class level as members of the
4common races do, and they do not multiply the skill points for
their first class level by four. Instead, they have already received a
feat for their first Hit Die because of race, and they have already
multiplied their racial skill points for their first Hit Die by four,,

Use ECL instead of character level when referring to Table 3-2;
Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits in the Player's Handbook |
to determine how many experience points a monster character!
needs to reach its next level. Also use ECL with Table 5~1; Charac-

.ter Wealth by Level to determine starting wealth for a monster
jcharacter.

Monster characters treat skills mentioned in their Monster
Manual entry as class skills,

As you can see, many monster characters are inappropriate for
parties of ist-level adventurers. You may.choose.to allow them.
lanyway, assuming that the party's encounters grant fewer experi-

ence points to higher-level characters, allowing the rest of the
party to catch up in level. Alternatively, you may ask players to
wait until the rest of the party reaches the monster character's ECL
before the monster character enters play,

Ifa monster has 1 Hit Die or less, or if it is a template creature
((such as a vampire or a lycanthrope; see the Monster Manual), it
jimust start the game with one or more class levels, like a regular
ycharacter, Ifa monster bas 2 or more Hit Dice, it can start with no.
iclass levels (though it can gain them later).

Even if the creature is of a kind that normally advances by Hit
Dice rather than.class levels, such as.a gargoyle, a PC (as an excep-
tional individual) can gain class levels rather than Hit Dice

Ability Scores for Monster PCs: While the Monster Manwal
gives ability scores for a typical crearure of a certain kind, any
“monster” creature that becomes an adventurer is definitely not
typical. Therefore, when creating a PC from acreature.in the Mon-;
ster Manual, check to see if the creature's entry_has any ability,
scores of 10 or higher. If so, for each score, subtract.10 (if the score,
is even) or 11 (if the score is odd) to get the creature's modifier for
thar ability based on its race or kind. For example, a typical mino-
taur has a Strength score of 19, so its racial ability modifierso.
Strength is +8 (19 — 11 = 8), Roll the PC's ability score (4d6, dis-
carding the low die) and add the racial ability modifier to get the
minotaur PC's Strength score.

For ability scores lower than 10, the procedure is different, First,
roll the PC’ ability score (4d6, discarding the low.die), and com
pare the roll to the monster's average ability score, using either the
table below that applies to Intelligence or the table that applies to
the other five ability scores, For example, the minotaur has a listed
Intelligence score of 7, so.the player consults the "6-7" column on
the table that applies to Intelligence. She then rolls 4d6, dropping
the low result, and gets a.10. Checking the left-hand column on
the table and reading across.to.the. proper column, she sees that
her minotaur PC has an Intelligence score of 6.

‘The separate table for Intelligence ensures that no PC ends up
with an Intelligence score lower than 3, This is important, because
creatures with an Intelligence score lower than 3 are not playable
characters. Creatures with any ability score lower than 1 are also
not playable, and you should think twice about letting in a PC
with any ability score lower than 3.

Other Statistics for Monsters: Creatures with Hit Dice of 1
or less have normal, class-based Hit Dice and features. They get a
feat for their first class level and multiply the skill points for their
first. class level by four (even if.they have a level adjustment).
Those with 2 or more Hit Dice have statistics based on these Hit
Dice plus Hit Dice for class levels (if any)

For example, an ogre with no class levels has #48 HD,.a base.
attack bonus of +3, two feats, and 7 skill points (or more if its Intel-
ligence is higher than 9). The first Hit Die is treated as maximum,
giving her 8 + 3d8 + (Constitution bonus x 4) hit points, 4

Experience for Monsters: A monster with Hit Dice of tor,
less, no level adjustment, and class levels uses Table 3~2: Experi |
ence and Level-Dependent Benefits on page 22 of the Player's
Handbook just as any other player character does.

A monster with Hit Dice of 1 or less, a level adjustment, and
class levels adds its class levels, Hit Die, and level adjustment
