them toa single caster. As with maving spells up or down in level,
a theme for a brand-new spell list helps balance it (especially a
theme with both strengths and shortcomings). The new. spell list
might be strong on offensive spells but lacking in defensive
magic, or great with healing and divinations but lacking in move-|
ment-related and alteration spells. Casters with access to spells |
(from two different classes should generally have fewer spells avail-}
lable than either of the original classes, Versatiliry has its price.|

Classes for whom spellcasting is secondary—such as the}
\zanger, the paladin, and perhaps the bard—offer an even greater,
opportunity for manipulation, since their lists are smaller and
\thus more easily shifted. Subtle changes, such as the paladin of a
deity of healing with all curing spells, ora beastmaster ranger with
only animal-related spells, are fairly easy to create. Greater
changes are also possible, such as the divine bard (the cantor),
whose spells are all taken from the cleric list.

Example New Spell List: The Witch

| Below is a new spell list for a variant spellcasting class: the witch.
A staple of fantasy lirerarure and fairy tales, the witch dabbles in,
many kinds of magic—minor illusions, spells dealing with health,
or life, nature-based magic, simple divinations, and spells that
alter the shape and appearance of things—but excels at just a few.
Hence, her list is somewhat limited, but it contains wizard, cleric,
and druid spells. She casts spells as a sorcerer, using the sorcerer's
Spells pet Day table (see page $2 of the Player's. Handbook), and her

spells are based on Charisma. The witch’ spell list is designed with
the following considerations in mind.

Cure Spells; Only the weakest of these, andthe witch doesnt
shave the cleric’s ability to cast cure spells spontaneously. The witch
isnt blessed with a cleric’s (or druid’s) plethora of healing spells,
bur she can offer a little aid to those she favors.

Illusions: Only through the middle levels. A witch can trick

ther foes, bur not to the extent that a wizard can.

Divinations; Only the straightforward divinations, such as
clairvoyance/clairaudience and scrying, and noteven all of them,

Charms; Many, A major feature of this class. __

Form-Changing: Another strong point for the witch. From.,
alter self to shapechange, the witch has most of the spells relating to
changing her (or someone else's) form.

Nature: From speaking to animals to controlling the weather.,
the witch dabbles in this type of magic, if for no other reason than
she usually lives a secluded life in the wilderness,

No Flashy Spells: Anything from. lightning bolt to a wall of fire
to a Bighy’s hand spell is right out. The witch's archetype doesn't
suggest overt attack spells or spells that create massive magic con-
structs, She doesn't summon monsters, place wards, or teleport

from place.to place. Her magic is subtle.

 

“Miscellaneous: Spells such as whispering wind, Leomund’ tiny!
hut, bestow curse (and a few other curselike spells), and a few com-|
munication spells round our the list.

Witch Spell List
| 0 Level: arcane mark,.cure. minor wounds, dancing lights, daze, detect
\magic, detect poison, flare, ghost sound, light, mending, read magic, resist-
ance, virtue,
1st Level: cause fear, change self, charm person, command, com-.
Lprehend languages, cure light wounds, doom, endure elements, hypnotism.,
identify, silent image, sleep, speak with animals, ventriloquism. }
and Level: alter self, blindness/deafness, calm emotions, cure moder-
ate wounds, delay poison, detect thoughts, enthrall, invisibility, locate
object, minar.image, scare, whispering wind. |
3rd Level: bestow curse, clairvoyance/clainaudience, contagion, create |
food and water, dispel magic, Leomund’s tiny hut, magic circle.against
\chaos/law/evil/good*, major image, rage, remove blindness/deafness,
suggestion, tongues.
4th Level: charm monster, crushing despair, discern lies, divination,
{fear, giant vermin, good hope, locate creature, minor creation, neutralize
poison, polymorph, remove curse, scrying.
5th Level: baleful polymorph, dream, falsexision, feeblemind, greater.
command, magic jar. major creation, mirage arcana, nightmare, seeming,
sending.
6th Level: animate objects, control weather, eyebite, find the path,
geas/quest, greater scrying, heroes’ feast, legend lore, mass suggestion, smis-
lead, repulsion, shadow image, Tenser's transformation, true seeing.
7th Level: creeping doom, finger of death, insanity, liveoak, repel
wood, transport via plants. }
8th Level: antipathy, demand, discern location, horrid wilting, poly:
morph any object, sympathy, trap the soul. }
9th Level: earthquake, foresight, refuge, shapechange, wail of the ban- |
shee, weird. 4
*When she becomes able to cast 3rd-level spells, the witch
chooses to have one of the four magic circle spells on her spell list.
Whichever spell she chooses, she cannot cast it asa spell of an
alignment opposed to her own.

CREATING NEW CLASSES

It’s possible to create entirely new classes, or rather, to alter exist-

ing classes so drastically that they're no longer recognizable. For

example, you could make the following adjustments to the ranger.

+ Limit his weapon selection to resemble the rogue's list of weap-
on proficiencies,

* Change his favored enemy ability so that it applies only to
undead, and his bonus improves by 2 every five levels.

* Give him the rogue’s sneak attack ability, but change it so that
it’s only usable against undead,

 

 

a a a

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

WHY MESS AROUND WITH CHARACTER CLASSES?
The standard character classes fit into virtually everyone's campaign
They're flexible, and skill and feat selection allow them to be truly
customizable. Most character concepts can be covered using the
classes as written, Modifying classes is mostly a tool that you can use
to tailor things to best fit your campaign. It shouldn't come up that
often, since it’s rarely necessary.

DMs who create their own worlds may find that the classes need
some focusing to make them specific to a particular campaign. If, in
developing your world, you design a culture steeped in a long-stand-
ing hatred of magic, you might alter the fighter to be a demonsiayer
and give the class a limited weapon selection and special feats that
work best against outsiders. The ranger might become a wizard-
hunter, the cleric could be a protector with early access to dispel magic
and various defensive spells, and all PC classes might be vobued

with the ability to use detect magic once per day.

Sometimes, however, players come to you and say that they like
certain class, but they want to change a single feature or two. Michele
might want to play a ranger with no desire to have more than one
favored enemy. She wants to play a beast-slayer, and her character
hates dire wolves. She’s also interested in the paladin's warhorse. You
can decide, as a DM, that it’s acceptable to trade those ranger abilities
for the paladin’s mount. In fact, you might decide that it’s not a fair
trade, and that Michele's character can have the detect evil ability as
well, (She is, after all, giving up an ability usable at 1st level as well as
‘one that comes into play later for one that she can’t acquire until 5th
level.) Allowing a player to play the character she wants to play is
always a desirable goal. Sometimes it can't be achieved—the player
asks for too much, or what she wants doesn't fit with your campaign—
but the effort to accommodate reasonable modifications is almost
always worth it

 

 
