rounds of study are required before he can attemptanother death
attack.

Poison Use: Assassins are trained in the use of poison and
never risk accidentally poisoning themselves when applying
poison to a blade. 4

Spells: Beginning atist level, an assassin gains the ability to,

cast a number of arcane spells, To cast.a spell, an assassin must},
have an Intelligence score of at least 10 + the spell’s level, so an,
assassin with an Intelligence of 10 or lower cannot cast these}
spells. Assassin bonus spells are based on Intelligence, and saving}
throws against these spells havea DC of 10 + spell level + the
\assassin’s Intelligence bonus (if any). When the assassin gets 0
spells per day of a given spell level (for instance, 1st-level spells
for a 1st-level assassin), he gains only the bonus spells he would
be entitled ro based.on his Intelligence score for that spell level.
The assassins spell list appears below. An assassin casts spells just
as a bard does,

Upon. reaching 6th level, at every even-numbered level after}
ithat (8th.and 10th), an assassin can choose to learn a new spell in}
| place.of one he already knows. The new spell’s level must be the,

same as that of the spell being exchanged, and it must be at least
two levels lower than the highest-level assassin spell the assassin
can cast. For instance, upon reaching 6th level, an assassin could
trade ina single 1st-level spell (two spell levels below the highest-
level sorcerer spell he can cast, which is 3rd) for a different 1st-
level spell. Ac Sth and 10th levels, he could trade in a single 1st-
Jevel or 2nd-level spell (since he now can cast 4th-level assassin
spells) fora different spell of the same level. An assassin may swap
only a single spell at any given level, and must choose whether or
not to swap the spell at the same time that he gains new spells.
known for that level.

TABLE 6—S: Assassin SPELLS KNOWN

— Spells Known —

Level Ast, 2nd 3rd. 4th
Ist 2 = — —
2nd 3 = — —
3rd 3 2 = =
4th 4 3 = =
Sth 4 3 2 = }
6th 4 4 3 -
7th 4 4 3 2
8th 4 4 4 3
Sth 4 4 4 3

10th 4 4 4 4

1 Provided the assassin.has sufficient Intelligence to have a bonus
spell of this level,

Save Bonus against Poison: Assassins train with poisons of all
types.and slowly grow more and more resistant to their effects.
This is reflected by a natural saving throw bonus to all poisons
gained at 2nd level that increases by +1 for every two additional
levels the assassin gains (+2.at-4th level, +3 at 6th level, and so on)

Uncanny Dodge (Ex); Starting at 2nd level, an assassin gains
the ability to react to danger before his senses would normally
allow him to even be aware of it, He retains his Dexterity bonus to
AC (if any) regardless of being caught flat-footed or struck by an
invisible attacker. (He still loses any Dexterity bonus to AC if
immobilized.) .

Ifa character gains uncanny dodge from a second class (such as
a barbarian/rogue), the character automatically gains improved
uncanny dodge (see below). -

Improved Uncanny Dodge (Ex); At sth level, an assassin can
no longer be flanked, since he can react to opponents on opposite
sides of him as easily as he can react to a single attacker. This de-
fense denies rogues the ability to use flank attacks to sneak attack |
the assassin, The exception to this defense is thar a rogue at least

four levels higher than the assassin can flank him (and thus sneak
attack him). {
If. character gains uncanny dodge (see above) from a.second
class (such as.a barbarian/rogue), the character automatically gains;
Limproved uncanny dodge, and.the levels from those classes stack to
|determine the minimum rogue level required to flank the character,
Hide in Plain Sight (Su): Ar 8th level, an assassin can use the
Hide skill even while being observed. As long as he is within 10
feet of some sort of shadow, an assassin can hide himself from_
view in the open without having anything to actually hide behind,
He cannot, however, hide in his own shadow.

Assassin Spell List

Assassins choose their spells from the following list:
ist Level: disguise self, detect poison, feather fall, ghost sound, jump,
obscuring mist, sleep, true strike.
2nd Level: alter self, cat’s grace, darkness, fox's cunning, illusory
Lscript, invisibility, pass without trace, spider climb, undetectable align-
iment.
3rd Level: deep slumber, deeper darkness, false life, magic circle
against good, misdirection, nondetection,.
4th Level: clairaudience/clairvoyance, dimension door, freedam.of
movement, glibness, greater invisibility, locate creature, modify. memory,
poison.

BLACKGUARD

The blackguard epitomizes evil. He is nothing short.of a. mortal,
ifiend. The quintessential black knight, this villain carries a reputa-)
tion of the foulest sort that is very well deserved, Consorting with.
demons and devils and serving dark deities, the blackguard is,
hated and feared by all. Some people call these villains anti-;
paladins due to their completely evil nature. |

‘The blackguard has many options available to him—sending
forth dark minions and servants to do his bidding, artacking with
stealth and honorless guile, or straightforward smiting of the
forces of good that stand in his way. Fighters, ex-paladins, rangers,
monks, druids, and barbarians make for indomitable combat-ori-
ented blackguards, while rogues and bards who become black-
guards are likely to stress the subtle aspects of their abilities and
spells, Sorcerers, wizards, and clerics who become blackguards are
sometimes called diabolists and favor dealing with fiends even
more than other blackguards do.

As NPCs, blackguards usually lead legions of undead, evil out-
siders, or other monsters to.conquer their own doomed demesne
or expand their existing territory. Sometimes they serve more
powerful evil characters as dark lieutenants. On occasion they
operate alone as hired killers or wandering purveyors of ill,
destruction, and chaos. >

Hit Die: dio,

Requirements

To qualify.to become a blackguard,.a character must fulfill all the
following criteria.

Alignment: Any evil.

Base Attack Bonus: +6.

Skills; Hide 5 ranks, Knowledge (religion) 2 ranks,

Feats; Cleave, Improved Sunder, Power Attack.

Special: The character must have made peacefull contact with
an evil outsider who was summoned by him or someone else. |

Gass Skills i

The blackguard’s class skills (and the key ability foreach skill) are |
Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Handle,
_Animal (Cha), Heal (Wis), Hide (Dex), Intimidate (Cha), Knowl-
edge (religion) (Int), Profession (Wis), and Ride (Dex). See Chap-
iter 4of the Player's Handbook for skill descriptions.

Skill Points at Each Level: 2 + Int modifier.

 
