dupe others. All shadowdancer troupes maintain an.auraof mys-
tery among the common folk, who never know whether to think
well or ill of them.

Hit Die: ds,

Requirements
To qualify to become a shadowdancer, a character must fulfill all
the following criteria

Skills: Move Silently 8 ranks, Hide 10 ranks, Perform (dance) )

Sranks.
Feats; Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Mobility.

a

ass Skills
The shadowdancer's class skills (and the key ability for each skill
are Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Decipher Script (Int), Diplomacy
(Cha), Disguise (Cha), Es: @
cape. Artist. (Dex), Hide
Dex), Jump (Str), Listen
i Move Silently (Dex),
Perform (Cha), Profession (Wis),
Search (Int), Sleight of Hand (Dex),
Spot (Wis), Tumble (Dex), and Use
Rope (Dex). See Chapter 4 of the Player's
Handbook for skill descriptions.

Skill Points at Each Level: 6 + Int modifier.

 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
        
 

   

 

  

 

2

jass Features
AlLof the following are features of the shadowdancer pres-
rige class.

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Shadowdancers
are proficient with the club, crossbow (hand, light,
ot heavy), dagger (any type), dart, mace, morn-
ingstar, quarterstaff, rapier, sap, shortbow. @
(normal and composite), and short sword,
Shadowdancers are proficient with light
armor but not with shields.
Hide in Plain Sight (Su): A shadow:
dancer can use the Hide skill even while
being observed. As long as she is within 10
feet of some sort of shadow, a shadowdancer
can hide herself from view in the open
without anything to actually hide
behind. She cannot, however, hide in her
own shadow,
Evasion (Ex); At 2nd level, a shadowdancer gains evasion. If
exposed to.any.effect that normally. allows her to. attempt.a Reflex
saving throw for half damage (such as.a fireball), she takes no

  
  
 

 

 

TABLE 6-16: THE SHADOWDANCER
Base
Attack Fort Ref Will

Level Bonus Saye Saye Save __ Special
Ist 40 +0 42. 40 Hide in plain sight
2nd 41 40 +3__+0 Evasion, datkvision,
uncanny dodge
3rd 42 4143-41 Shadow illusion, summon
shadow
4th +3 +1 +4 $ Shadow jump 20 ft
Sth 43 +1 4441 Defensive roll, improved
uncanny dodge
6th__+4 +2__45__+2 __ Shadow jump 40 f..
summon shadow.
7th = 45 +2 45 42 Slippery mind
8th__+6. +2__+6 +2 Shadow jump 80 ft.
Sth 46 +3. 46 +3 Summon shadow
10th_+7 +4347 43 Shadow jump 160 ft,

improved evasion

land, if successful, takes only half damage from the blow. She must

damage with a successful saving throw. The evasion ability can only

be used if the shadowdancer is wearing light armor or no armor.

Darkvision (Su); At 2nd level, a shadowdancer can see in the.
dark as though she svere permanently under the effect of a dark-
vision spell

Uncanny Dodge (Ex); Starting at 2nd level, a shadowdancer has

the ability to react to danger before her senses would normally allow
her to even be aware.of it She retains her Dexterity bonus to AC (if,
any) regardless of being caught flat-footed or struck by an invisible.
attacker. (She still loses any Dexterity bonus to AC if immobilize
Ifa character gains uncanny dodge from a.second class (such as.
barbarian or rogue), the character automatically gains improved
uncanny dodge (see below
Shadow Ulusion (Sp): When a shadowdancer reaches 3rd Jevel, she
can create visual illusions from surrounding shadows, This ability’s
effect is identical to that of the arcane spell silent image and may. be.
employed once per day.
Summon Shadow (Su): At 3rd level, a shadowdancer can sum-
mon.a shadow, an undead shade (see the Monster.
Manual for the shadow's statistics). Unlike a
normal shadow, this shadow’s align-
ment matches thatof the shadow
dancer, and the creature cannot
create spawn. The summoned
shadow cannot be turned,
rebuked, or commanded by
any third party. This shadow.
serves as.a. companion to the.
shadowdancer.and can com
municate intelligibly with the.
shadowdancer, Every third level
gained by the shadowdancer adds +2.
HD (and the requisite base attack and
base save bonus increases) to her
shadow companion. For example, a.9th-
level shadowdancer can have a shadow com-
panion with 6 HD.
Ifa shadow companion is destroyed, or the
shadowdancer chooses to dismiss it, the shadow-
dancer must attempt a DC 15 Fortitude save. If
the saving throw fails, the shadowdancer loses 200
experience points per shadowdancer level. A suc-
cessful saving throw_.reduces the loss by half, to 100
XP per prestige class level. The shadowdancer's XP
total can never go below 0.as the result of a shadow’s dis-
missal or destruction. A destroyed or dismissed shadow
companion cannot be replaced for 30 days.

Shadow Jump (Su): At 4th level, a shadowdancer
gains the ability to travel between shadows as if by
means of a dimension door spell. The limitation is that the
magical transport must begin and end in an area with at least some.
shadow, A shadowdancer can jump up-to a total of 20 feet each day
in this way; this may be a single jump of 20 feet or two jumps of 10
feet each. Every two levels higher than 4th, the distance a shadow-
dancer.can jump each day doubles (40 feet at 6th, 80 feet at sth, and
160 feet at 10th), This amount can be split among many jumps, but
each one, no matter how small, counts as a 10-foot increment. (A
6th-level shadowdancer who jumps 32 feet cannot jump_again
until the next day.)

Defensive Roll (Ex): Starting at Sth level, a shadowdancer can,
roll with a potentially lethal blow to take less damage from it.)
Once per day, when.a shadowdancer would be reduced to.0 hit
points or less by damage in combat (from a weapon or other blow,
nota spell or special ability), she can attempt to roll with the
damage. She makes a Reflex saving throw (DC = damage dealt

     

 

 
     
    
   
 
   
 
 
   

  
   
   
   
 
    
   
 

  

be aware.of the attack and able.to react to it in order to execute her

<
§
=
R
=
z

 
