Open Lock and Ride; even though both skills are Dexterity- natively, you can rule that the bard must spend an equivalent
based, they cover different kinds of activity (fine manipulation of period of time and money scouring the countryside for new
a mechanism versus keeping a mount under control in combat). songs, new. rumors, and so on. }
Scarcer yet would be a.srainer who could impart knowledge of

Great Cleave and Forge Ring—those feats are so far apart incon-| Researching Original Spells

  
     

ceptand application thatthe chance of onecharacter having both {If you decide to allow characters to develop original spells, you
vof them is close to nil, |. jean use these guidelines to handle the situation.
|1£you allow it, at the expense of a certain degree of realism.a, A spelicaster of any kind can create a new spell, The research to
[character can obtain training ahead of time. A player whose char-| _do this requires access to.a well-stocked library, typically in a large,
jacter is at 2nd level, knowing thatthe character will get a newfeat, _,city or metropolis, Research requires an expenditure of 1,000 gp.
\at3rd level, might choose.to have his character train for the feat per week and takes one week per level of the spell. This money}
snow.either because the opportunity is available or to just get it out goes into fees, consultants, material component experimentation,
of the way. and other miscellaneous expenditures. At the end of thattime, the
Distinguishing Skills and Feats: You dont have to treat skills character makes a Spellcraft check (DC 10+ spell level), If that roll.
and feats the same_in this.context. For example, you can require succeeds, the character learns the new spell if her research pro-;
training or exposure for skills bur not feats, ruling that feats are duced a viable spell. If the roll fails, the character must go through
,something that develop on their own as a character adventures. Or ,the research process again if she wants to keep trying.
yyou.can set such requirements for feats but nor skills, justifying) | _,__A viable spell is one thar you allow into the game. Dont tell the
}this by.the fact that feats are so much more potent than skillsand}. {player whether you think the spell is viable when research begins.
\thus require more investment on the PC's part to acquire. 4 (That's the point of the research.) However, feel free to work with
} the player before the research begins and give him guidance on the
LEARNING NEW SPELLS parameters under which an original spell might be acceptable in
Divine spellcasters just get new spells when they gain the ability your game.
to cast them. Their deities, or the powers they revere, take care of Research to create new spells is always in addition to any other
itall for them. You will not find a ranger in a library trying to learn _research involved for gaining spells that are already patt.of your
anew spell. campaign (if you decide to also require spell research for the new
Arcane spellcasters don't haye things quite so easy, Wizards spells that casters are entitled to as they attain higher levels).
(must learn new spells and add them_to their spellbooks. This The number of spells that sorcerers and bards can know.is)
|process is detailed in the Player's Handbook (see Arcane Magical strictly limited; members of those classes can never.exceed these |
writings, page 178). limits even through the research of original spells.
[-_4f you require wizards to actually spend game time on spell
[research to gain those new spells, assume that it takes one day per +GAINING CLASS BENEFITS }
{spell (but no roll is needed for spells that come swith level advance- You can mandate that to gain any of the newfound class-based ben-
|ment) and that such research costs twice what it would normally efits earned by advancing a level, a character needs to. perform
cost.to have an NPC cast thar spell for the character (see NPC some overall training. This training requires one week per every
Spellcasting, page 107). two levels, rounded up. Training requires a character to train with a
It's perfectly all right for two PC wizards to share spells. character of the same class who is higher in level and costs 1,000 gp
According to the standard rules, sorcerers and bards dont need, per week. If no such trainer can be found, the cost is the same, but
to study books to get their spells bur just automatically gain new) the time required is doubled. The money goes into fees, consult-
spells when they gain levels. However, as a variant rule you could) __ants, material component experiments, and other miscellaneous
require that each sorcerer contact an intelligent supernatural, expenditures, Without the training,.a character cannot acquire
entity (anything from a lammasu to.a demon) to learn new spells. more hit points, class features, saying throw and attack bonus
Such creatures usually don't want payment in gold but prefer to increases, spells per day, skill points, new spells, and so on.

strike a bargain instead, These supernatural patrons teach their
mortal friends spells in exchange for an occasional service (which GENERAL DOWNTIME
could lead to an exciting adventure in its own right). Playing the If you dislike the idea of all this formalized training getting in the

patron is in the purview of the DM and, depending on the crea way of the heroic, epic campaign you have going, simply require
,ture chosen, you should require whatever sort of bargain you see thar whenever a character gains anew level she must spend one day
Ifit, The following are but a couple of examples. per level (or just 1d4 days) in downtime. During this period the
|+ “AJammasu only makes.a bargain with.a good-aligned sorcerer. _ character is busy training, focusing, or simply resting and cannot
In.exchange for spells, once every other level the sorcerer must cast spells, go on adventures, and so.on,

right a wrong or do some specific good deed, such as freeing a
captive cleric unjustly placed in prison, building a.shelrer for GAINING FIXED HIT POINTS

diseased beggars, or destroying an evil remple. Instead of rolling for hit points when she gains a level, a player
* A dragon only makes a bargain with a sorcerer of the same may.(if you use this variant) take.the average roll for the class (see
alignment. In exchange for spells, the dragon requires payment the table below), Constitution modifiers still apply. Below-average
either in magic treasure.or in service. If treasure. the item must hit points hurt a PC more than above-average hit points help, so
be of a value twice what it would normally.cost.to have an NPC this variant makes characters slightly more powerful.
cast that spell for the character (see NPC Spellcasting, page
. 107), If a service, every other level (typically) the sorcerer must Cleric Fighter.
|—-perform some task appointed by the dragon. Usually, this sery-. Sorcerer Bard Druid _ Paladin |
| —ice.is te procure some specific abject and bring it to the dragon, Wizard Rogue Monk Ranger Barbarian |
4__slay.a creature. the dragon considers a threat or pest..or spy on Hit Die 4 d6 a do a2 |
tone of the dragon's enemies and report what he learns. LHit points at.even 2 3 4 5 6
Bards gain new spells by learning new songs. You can treat this | level (2nd, 4th, etc.)
just.asa.wizard learning new spells from books ina library, butthe| | Hit points at odd 3 4 5 6 7

band is studying with another bard and learning new music. Alter-) | level (3rd, Sth, etc)
