 

and thus bypasses the corresponding damage reduction. It deals
an extra 2d6 points of damage against all of chaotic alignment. It
bestows one negative level on any chaotic creature attempting to
wield it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in
hand and disappears when the weapon is no longer wielded, This,
negative level never results in actual level Joss, but it cannot be,
overcome in any way (including restoration spells) while the)
\weapon is wielded. Bows, crossbows, and slings so crafted bestow.
ithe lawful power upon their ammunition. }

Moderate evocation [lawful];.CL 2th; Craft Magic Arms.and/
|Armor, onder’s wrath, creator must be lawful; Price +2 bonus,

Bane: A bane weapon excels at attacking one type or subtype of
creature. Against its designated foe, its effective enhancement
bonus is +2 better than its normal enhancement bonus (soa +1 long-
swond is a +3 longswond against its foe). It deals an extra 2d6 points of
damage against the foe, Bows, crossbows, and slings so crafted

,bestow the bane quality upon their ammunition. To randomly.
jdetermine.a weapon’ designated foe, roll on the following table.

| d% Designated Foe |
01-05 Aberrations |
06-09 Animals
10-16 Constructs
17-22 Dragons
23-27 Elementals
28-32 Fey
, 3339 Giants
40 Humanoids, aquatic
| 41-42 Humanoids, dwarf
4344 Humanoids, elf
45 Humanoids, gnoll
46 Humanoids, gnome
| 4749 Humanoids, goblinoid
L 50 Humanoids, halfling
51-54 Humanoids, human
55-57 Humanoids, reptilian
58-60 Humanoids, orc
61-65 Magical beasts
66-70 Monstrous humanoids
n-72 Qozes }
B Outsiders, ait
74-16 Outsiders, chaotic
77 Outsiders, earth
78-30 Outsiders. evil
81 Outsiders, fire
82-84 Outsiders, good
85-87 Outsiders, lawful
88 Outsiders, water
89-90 Plants
91-98 Undead
, 99-100 Vermin

Moderate conjuration; CL sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
summon monster I; Price +1 bonus,

Brilliant Energy: A brilliant energy weapon has its significant
portion—such as its blade, axe head, or arrowhead—transformed
into light, although this does not modify the item's weight. Ir
always gives off light as a torch (20-foot radius). A brilliant energy
weapon ignores nonliving matter, Armor bonuses to AC (includ-
ing any enhancement bonuses to that armor) do not. count against
jit because the weapon passes through armor, (Dexterity, deflec-
jtion, dodge, natural armor, and other such bonuses still apply.) A.

jbrilliant energy weapon cannot harm undead, constructs, and
jobjects. This property can only be applied to melee weapons,
thrown weapons, and ammunition.

Strong transmutation; CL 16th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor.)
gaseous form, continual flame; Price +4 bonus. 4

Dancing: Asa standard action, a dancing weapon can be loosed |
to attack on its own. It fights for 4 rounds using the base attack.
bonus of the one who loosed it and then drops. While dancing, it
cannot make attacks of opportunity, and the person who activated.

iris not considered armed with the weapon. In all other respects,
jit is considered wielded or attended by the creature for all maneu
avers and effects that target items (such as the sunder action or a
heat metal spell). While dancing, it takes up the same space as the
activating character and can attack adjacent foes (weapons with
.teach can attack opponents up to 10 feet away). The dancing.
weapon accompanies the person who activated_iteverywhere,
whether she moves by physical or magical means. If the wielder
who loosed it has an unoccupied hand, she can grasp it. while itis
attacking on its own asa free action; when so retrieved the weapon.
cant dance (attack on its own) again for 4 rounds, 4

Strong transmutation; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
animate objects; Price +4 bonus.

Defending: A defending weapon allows the wielder to transfer
jsome or all of the swond’s enhancement bonus to his AC as a bonus,
that stacks with all others, Asa free action, the wielder chooses how to

allocate the weapon's enhancement bonus at the start of his turn.
before using the weapon, and the effect to AC Jasts until his nextrurn.

Moderate abjuration; CL 8th; Craft Magic. Arms and Armor,
shield or shield of faith; Price +1 bonus, J

Disruption: A weapon of disruption is the bane of all undead.
Any undead creature struck in combat mustsucceed ona DC 14
Will save or be destroyed. A weapon of disruption must be aj
bludgeoning weapon. (If you roll this property. candomly fora,
piercing or slashing weapon, reroll.) j

Strong conjuration; CL 14th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
heal; Price +2 bonus,

Distance: This property can only be placed on a ranged.
weapon. A weapon of distance has double the range increment .of.
other weapons of its kind.

Moderate divination; CL 6th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
clairaudience/ clairvoyance; Price +1 bonus.

Flaming: Upon command, a flaming weapon is sheathed in
fire. The fire does not harm the wielder. The effect remains until
another command is given. A flaming weapon deals an extra 1d6
points of fire damage on a.successful hit. Bows, crossbows, and
slings so crafted bestow the fire energy upon their ammunition.

Moderate evocation; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor and
flame blade, flame strike, or fireball; Price +1 bonus.

Flaming Burst: A flaming burst weapon functions asa flaming
weapon that also explodes with flame upon striking a successful
critical hit, The fire does not harm the wielder. In addition to the
extra fire damage from the flaming ability (see above), a flaming
burst weapon deals an extra 1d10 points of fire damage on a suc-
cessful critical hit. If the weapon's critical multiplier is x3, add an
extra 2410 points of fire damage instead, and if the multiplier is
x4, add an extra 3d10 points of fire damage. Bows, crossbows, and
slings so crafted bestow the fire energy upon their ammunition.
Even if the flaming ability is not active, the weapon still deals its
extra fire damage on a successful critical hit,

Strong evocation; CL 12th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor and.
flame blade, flame strike, or fireball; Price +2 bonus.

Frost: Upon command, a frost weapon is sheathed in icy cold.
The cold does not harm the wielder. The effect remains until
anothet.command is given. A frost weapon deals an extra.1d6|
points of cold damage on a successful hit. Bows, crossbows, and |
slings so. crafted bestow the cold energy upon their ammunition.

Moderate evocation; CL ath; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, chill |
metal or ice storm; Price +1 bonus. 1

Ghost Touch: A ghost touch weapon deals damage normally
\against incorporeal creatures, regardless of its bonus, (An incor-
\poreal creature's 50% chance to avoid damage does not apply to

attacks with ghost touch weapons.) The weapon can be picked up
