and moved by an incorporeal creature. at.any.time.A manifesting
ghost can wield the weapon against corporeal foes. Essentially, a
ghost touch weapon counts as either corporeal or incorporeal at
any given time, whichever is more beneficial to.the.wielder.
Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
plane shift; Price +1 bonus.
Holy: A holy. weapon is imbued with holy power. This power}

| makes the weapon good-aligned and thus bypasses the correspon:|

ding damage reduction, It deals an extra 2d6 points of damage |
against all of evil alignment. It bestows one negative level on any}
evil creature attempting to wield it. The negative level remains as

ilong.as the weapon is in hand and disappears when the weapon is

no longer wielded. This negative level never results in actual level
loss, bur it cannot be overcome in any way (including restoration
spells) while the weapon is wielded. Bows, crossbows, and slings
so crafted bestow the holy power upon their ammunition.

Moderate evocation [good];.CL 7th; Craft Magic Arms and.
, Armor, holy smite, creator must be good; Price +2 bonus.

Icy Burst: An icy burst weapon functions as a frost weapon that |
also explodes with frost upon striking a successful critical hit. The,
frost does not harm.the wielder. In addition to the extra damage |
from the frost ability, an icy burst weapon deals an extra 1d10
points of cold damage on a successful critical hit. If the weapon's
critical multiplier is x3, add an extra 2d10 points of cold damage
instead, and if the multiplier is x4, add an extra 3d10 points. Bows,
crossbows, and slings so crafted bestow the cold energy upon their
ammunition. Even if the frost ability is not active, the weapon still

(deals its extra cold damage on a successful critical hit.

Moderate evocation; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
chill metal or ice storm; Price +2 bonus.

Keen: This ability doubles the threat range of a weapon. For
instance, if it is placed on a longsword (which has anormal threat

jtange of 19-20), the keen longsword scores.a.threat.on.a 17-20.

Only piercing or slashing weapons can be keen. (If you roll this
property. randomly for an inappropriate weapon, reroll.) This ben-
efit doesn't stack with any other effect that expands the threat
range of a weapon (such as the keen_edge spell or the Improved
Critical feat). 4
Moderate transmutation; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, |
keen edge; Price +1 bonus. 1
Ki Focus: The magic weapon serves as a channel for the wielder's,
ket, allowing her to use her special ki attacks through the weapon as
if they were unarmed attacks. These attacks include the monk's
stunning attack, ki strike, and quivering palm, as well as the Stun-
ning Fist feat. Only melee weapons can have the ki focus abiliry.
Moderate transmutation; CL 8th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
creator must be a monk; Price +1 bonus.
Merciful: The weapon deals an extra 1d6 points of damage, and

jall damage it deals is nonlethal damage. On command, the weapon
.supptesses this ability until commanded to resume it. Bows, cross-
|bows,and slings so crafted bestow the merciful effect upon their

ammunition.

Faint conjuration; CL Sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, cure
light wounds, Price +1 bonus.

Mighty Cleaving: A mighty cleaving weapon allows a wielder
with the Cleave feat to make one additional cleave attempt in a
round.

Moderate evocation; CL sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
divine power; Price +1 bonus,

Returning: This special ability can only be placed on.a weapon
‘that can be thrown. A returning weapon flies through the air back
jrothe creature that threw it. Ir rerurns to the thrower just before the

\creature’s next. turn (and is therefore ready to use again in that turn).

Catching a returning weapon when it comes back is.a free
action. If the character cant catch it, or if the character has moved.
since throwing it, the weapon drops to the ground in the square |.
from.which it was thrown.

Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, ,
telekinesis; Price +1 bonus.
Seeking: Only. ranged weapons can have the seeking. ability.,
The weapon veers toward its target, negating any miss chances)
that would otherwise apply, such as from concealment. (The
jwwielder still has to. aim the weapon at the right square. Arrows mis-
jtakenly shot into an.empty.space, for example, do not veer and hit
invisible enemies, even if they are nearby.)
Strong divination; CL 12th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, true,
seeing; Price +1 bonus. a
Shock: Upon command, a shock weapon is sheathed in crack-|
ling electricity. The electricity does not harm the wielder. The
effect remains until another command is given. A shock weapon
deals an extra 1dé6 points of electricity damage on a successful hit.
Bows, crosshows, and slings so crafted bestow the electricity
energy upon their ammunition.
Moderate evocation; CL 8th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, call
Jlightning or lightning bolt; Price +1 bonus.
Shocking Burst: A shocking burst weapon functions as a shock

4sveapon that also explodes with electricity upon striking a success-

ful critical hit. The electricity does not harm the wielder. In addi-
tion to the extra electricity damage from the shock ability, a shock-
ing burst weapon deals an extra 1d10 points of electricity damage
on a successful critical hit 1f the weapon's critical multiplier is x3,
add an extra 2d10 points of electricity damage instead, and if the
multiplier is x4, add an extra 3d10 points. Bows,.crossbows,. art
slings so crafted bestow the electricity energy.

jtion. Even if the shock ability is not active, the weapon still ideas)
its extra electricity damage on a successful critical hit

Moderate evocation; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, call]
lightning or lightning bolt; Price +2 bonus.

Speed: When making a full attack action, the wielder of a speed
weapon may make.one.extra attack with it. The attack uses the,
wielder'’s full base attack bonus, plus any modifiers appropriate to
the situation. (This benefit is not cumulative with similar effects,
such as a haste spell.)

Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Craft Magic Arms.and Armor,
haste; Price +3 bonus,

Spell Storing: A spell storing weapon allows a spellcaster to
store a single targeted spell of up to 3rd level in the weapon. (The
spell must have a casting time.of 1 standard action.) Any time the
weapon strikes a creature and the creature takes damage from it,
the weapon can immediately cast the spell on that creature as a
free action if the wielder desires, (This special ability is an excep-
tion to the general rule that casting a spell from an item takes at
least as long as casting that spell normally.) Inflict serious wounds,
contagion, blindness, and hold person are all common choices for the
stored spell. Once the spell has been cast from the weapon, a spell-
caster can cast any other targeted spell of up to 3rd level into it.
‘The weapon magically imparts.co the wielder the name of the spell
currently. stored within it. A randomly rolled spell storing weapon
has a S0%.chance to have a spell stored in it already.

Strong evocation (plus aura of stored spell); CL 12th; Craft
Magic Arms and Armot.creator.must be a caster of at least 12th
level; Price +1 bonus.

Thundering: A thundering weapon creates a cacophonous roar
like thunder upon striking a successful critical hit. The sonic energy |
does not harm the wielder. A thundering weapon deals an extra.1d8 ,
points of sonic damage.on a successful critical hit. If the weapon's)
critical multiplier is x3, add an extra 2d8 points of sonic damage)

jinstead, and if the multiplier is x4, add an extra 3d8 points of sonic}
damage. Bows, crosshows,.and.slings so crafted bestow the sonic)
energy upon their ammunition. Subjects dealt a critical hit by.a}
\thundering weapon must make a DC 14 Fortitude save or be deaf-
,ened permanently,

Faintnecromancy; CL Sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, blind-
ness/deafness; Price +1 bonus.

 
