 

Throwing: This ability can only be placed on a melee
weapon. A melee weapon crafted with this ability gains a range
increment of 10 feet and.can_be thrown by.a wielder proficient
in its normal use,

Faint transmutation; CL sth; Craft Magic
Arms and Armor, magic stone; Price +1 bonus.

Unholy: An unholy weapon is imbued
with unholy power, This power makes the
weapon evil-aligned and thus bypasses the
corresponding damage reduction. It deals
an.extra 2d6 points of damage against all of
good alignment. It bestows.one negative
level on any good creature attempting to
wield it. The negative level remains as long
as the weapon isin hand and disappears
when the weapon is no longer wielded. This
negative level never results in actual level
Joss, but it cannot be overcome in any way
{including restoration spells) while the

iweapon is wielded. Bows, crossbows, and
slings so crafted hestow the unholy power
upon their ammunition.

Moderate evocation [evil]; CL 7th; Craft
Magic Arms and Armor, unholy blight, creator
must be evil; Price +2 bonus.

Vicious: When a vicious weapon strikes
an opponent, it creates a flash of disruptive
energy. that resonates between the opponent
and the wielder. This energy deals an extra

ladé points of damage to the opponent.and
1dé6 points of damage to the wielder, Only.
melee weapons can be vicious.

Moderate necromancy; CL 9th; Craft Magic
Arms and Armor, enervation; Price +1 bonus,

Vorpal: This potent and feared ability
allows the weapon to sever the heads of
those it strikes. Upon a roll of natural 20 (fol-
lowed by a successful roll to confirm the crit-
ical hit), the weapon severs the opponent's
head (if it has one) from its body. Some crea-
tures, such as many aberrations and all oozes,
have no heads, Others, such as golems and
undead creatures other than vampires, are
not affected by the loss of their heads. Most
other creatures, however, die when their
heads are.cur.off. The DM may haye.to.make.
judgment calls about this sword’s effect. A
vorpal weapon must be a slashing weapon. (If
you roll this property randomly for an inap-
propriate weapon, rerall,)

Strong necromancy_and transmutation; CL 18th; Craft Magic
Arms and Armor, cimle of death, keen edge; Price +5 bonus,

Wounding: A wounding weapon deals 1 point of Constitution
damage from blood loss when ir hits a creature. A critical hit does
not multiply the Constitution damage. Creatures immune to criti-
cal hits (such as plants and constructs) are immune to the Consti
tution damage dealt by this weapon.

Moderate evocation; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms.and Armor,
Mordenkainen's sword; Price +2 bonus,

 

 

Flame tongue

 

 

Specific Weapons
The following specific weapons usually are preconstructed with
Lexactly the qualities described here.

Adamantine Battleaxe: This nonmagical axe is made out of
adamantine. As a masterwork weapon, it has a +1 enhancement
bonus on attack rolls,

No.aura(nonmagical); Price 3,010 gp.

  

 

‘Adamantine Dagger: This nonmagical dagger is made out of
adamantine. As a. masterwork weapon, it has a +1 enhancement,
bonus on attack rolls.

No aura (nonmagical); Price 3,002 gp.

Assassin's Dagger: This wicked-looking, curved +2 dagger pro
vides a +1 bonus to the DC of a Fortitude save forced by the death
yattack of an assassin,

Moderate necromancy: CL 9th; Craft Magic Arms. and Armor,
slay living; Price 18,302 gp; Cost 9,302 gp +720 XP.

Dagger of Venom: This black +1 dagger has.a serrated edge. It
allows the wielder to use a poison effect (as the spell, save DC 14)
upon a creature struck by the blade once per day. The swielder can
decide to use the power after he has struck, Doing so is.a free
action, but the poison effect must be invoked in the same round.
that the dagger strikes,

Faint necromancy; CL sth; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, puison
Price 8,302 gp; Cost 4,302 gp + 320 XP.

Dwarven Thrower: This weapon commonly functions as a +2
warhammer. In the hands of a dwarf, the warhammer gains an.

 

jadditional +1 enhancement bonus (fora total enhancement bonus

of +3) and gains the returning special ability. It can be hurled with
a 30-foot range increment, When hurled, ir deals an extra 2d8
points of damage against giants or an extra 1d8 points of damage
against any other target
Moderate evocation; CL 10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
creator. must be a dwarf of at least 10th level; Price 60,312 gp; Cost
30,312 gp + 2,400 XP. |
Flame Tongue: This is a +1 flaming burst longsword. Once per)
day, the sword can blastforth a fiery ray at any targetswithin 30 feet |
as a ranged touch attack, The ray deals 4d6 points of fire damage.
on a successful hit.
Moderate evocation; CL 12th; Craft Magic Arms
and Armor, scorching ray,and flame blade, flame strike,
or fireball; Price 20,715 gp; Cost 10,515 gp + 816 XP.
Frost Brand: This +3 frost greatsword sheds light
as a torch when the temperature drops below 0
Arsuch times it cannot be concealed when dray
nor can its light be shut off. Its wielder is prote
from fire; the sword absorbs the first 10 points
of fire damage each round that the wielder
would otherwise take.
AA frost brand extinguishes all nonmagi«
cal fires in its area. As a standard action, ican
also dispel lasting fire spells such as wall/ofifim
but not instantaneous effects such as
meteor swarm, and flame strike, though you
succeed ona dispel check (1d20 +14) agai
spell to dispel it. The DC to dispel such spells
+ the caster level of the fire spell.
Strong evocation; CL 14th; Craft Magic
and Armor, ice storm, dispel magic, protection!
energy; Price $4,475 gp; Cost 27,375 gp and 5
2179.XP.
Holy Avenger: This +2 cold iron longswer
comes.at$ holy cold iron longsword in the hai
a paladin.

 

| of the paladin. (Only the area dispel is pose
sible, not the targeted dispel or counterspell vers
sions of greater dispel magic.)
Strong abjuration; CL 18th; Craft Magic Arms
and Aumor, holy aura, creator must be good; Price
120,630 gp; Cost 60,630 gp + 4,800 XP
Javelin of Lightning: This javelin becomes a Holy avenger

   
