Sylvan Scimitar: This +3 scimitar, when used outdoors in.atem
perate climare, grants its wielder the use of the Cleave feat and
deals an extra 16 points of damage.

Moderate evocation;CL 11th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
divine power or creator must be a 7th-level druid; Price 47,315gp;
Cost 23,657 gp.and 5 sp.+ 1,893 XP.

 

Trident of Fish Command: The magical properties of this +11

|trident with a 6-foot-long haft enable its wielder to charm up to 14
HD of aquatic animals (Will DC 16 negates, animals get a +5 bonus
if.currently under attack by the wielder or his

allies), no nwo of which can be more than 30 feet
apart. The wielder can use this effect up to
three times per day. The wielder can commu
nicate with f using a speak
with animals spell. Animals making their
saving throw are free of control, but they
will not approach within 10 feet of the tri-
dent. The trident can be used up to three
times per day.

Moderate enchantment; CL 7th; Craft
Magic Arms and Armor, speak with ani
mals; Price 18,650 gp; Cost 9,325 gp +
746 XP.

Trident of Warning: A weapon
this type enables its wielder to deter
mine the location, depth, kind, and
number of aquatic predators within 680
(feet. A trident of warning must be grasped
and pointed in order for the character
using it.co gain such information, and it
requires 1 round to scan a hemisphere with
aradius of 680 feet. The weapon is other
jwise a +2 trident,

Moderate divination; CL 7th;
Magic Arms and Armor, locate creature; | ff
Price 10,115 gp; Cost 5,057 gp and S sp + \
405. XP,

-OTIONS AND OILS
A potion is a magic liquid that produces its

‘ect when imbibed. Magic oils are similar to

potions, except that oils are applied extern
rather than imbibed, A potion or oil. can be used only once

plicate the effect of a spell of up.to 3rd level that has a casting
time of less. than 1. minute.

Potions. are like spells cast upon the imbiber, The character
taking the potion doesnt get to make any decisions about the ef
ifect—the caster who brewed the potion has already done so. For
lexample, a potion of protection from energy is always designed to pro
tect against a specific energy type chosen by the creator, not the
drinker. The drinker ofa potion is both the effective target and the
caster of the effect (though the potion indicates the caster level
the drinker still controls the effect, such as with levita!

The person applying an oil is the effective caster, but the ob
is the target. When acharacter applies oil of speak with dead, the
character is the one asking the questions

Physical Description: A typical potion or oil consists of 1
ounce of liquid held in a.ceramic.or glass vial fitred with a tight
stopper. The stoppered container is usually no more than.1 inch
wide and 2 inches high. The vial has AC 13, 1 hit point, hardness 1
and a break DC of 12. Vials hold 1 ounce of liquid.
| Identifying Potions: In addition to the standard methods of
Jidentification, PCs.can sample from each container they find to
attemptto determine the nature of the liquid inside. An experi:
enced character learns to identify potions by memory—for
example, the last time she tasted a liquid that reminded hi
almonds, itrurned out to be a potion of cure moderate wounds. (You can.

 

 

    

e animals as

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

 

raft

 

  

  

Itcan

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

er of

 

  

  
  

reward players who keep records of potion sampling by always
having the same typ
them.up by.occasionally having the almond-flavored potion be
something other than.a potion of
Activation: Drinking a potion or applying an oil requires no spe
cial skill. The user merely removes the stopper and swallows the
potion or smears on the oil. The following rules govern potion and
oil use.
Drinking a potion or using an oil on an item of gear isa standard
action, The potion or oil takes effect i diately,
Using a potion or oil provokes attacks of opportu-
nity, A successful attack (including grappling.
attacks) against the character forces a Conc
tration check (as for casting a spell). If the char
acter fails this check, she cannot drink the
potion, An enemy may direct an attack of op-
portunity against the potion or oil container
rather than against the char: A successful
attack of this sort.can destroy the container (se
page 165 of the Player's Handbook:
A creature must be able to swallow a potion or.
smear on.an cil, Because of this, incorporeal cree
utes cannot.use potions or.cils.
| Any corporeal creature can imbibe a potion.
f¢ potion must be swallowed. Any corporeal
ture can use
Acharacter can carefully administera potion to.
unconscious creature asa full-ro
ickling the liquid down the creature's throat
wise, it takes a full-round action.to apply.an
oil to an unconscious creature,
Random Generation: To ge:
and oils randomly, roll on Table
and Oils (see the following page

 

of potion taste the same—or you can cross

i
rounds.

 

ne moderate

 

 
  
 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
     
   

 
 
  

 
 
 
  
   

 

in oil

      
 

nd_action,|

 

erate potions,
17: Potions

    

 

Potion De

 

ript
standard potions are simply spells in
liquid form, refer to the spell desc: n
the Player's Handbook for all pertin
The caster level for a standard potion is the
minimum caster level needed to cast the spell
unless otherwise specified

Becauss

       

   
     

wal

tions

j .
RINGS
Rings bestow magical powers upon their wearers. Only a rare few
have charges. Anyone can use a ring

 

A character can only effectively wear two magic rings, A third
nit work if the wearer is already wearing two

 

Physical Description: Rings have no appreciable weight.
though exceptions exist that are crafted from glass or bone
vast majority of rings.are forged from metal—usually preci
metals such as gold, silver, and platinum. A ring has AC 13, 2
points, hardness 10, and a break DC of 25.

Activation: Usually, a ring’s ability is activated by a. comman’
word (a standard action that does not provoke attacks of oppo!
nity) or it works continually. Some rings have exceptional activa
tion methods, according to their descriptions.

Random Generation: To generate rings randomly, roll on
Table 7-18; Rings (see page 231

Special Qualities: Roll d%. A result of 01 indicates the ring is
intelligent, 02—31 indicates that something (a design. inscription, or
the like) provides a clue to its function, and 32-100 indicates no spe-|
cial qualities, Intelligent items have extra abilities and sometimes
extraondinary. powers and special purposes. Use Table 7-30: Item
Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and Capabilities as indicated if a
ting is intelligent. Ri

       

 

   

 

   

 

ngs with charges can never be intelligent

 
