Reflex save. Creatures not struck bur within.the spread ignore the’
impact damage and take only half damage from the fire spread on a
successful DC 13 Reflex save. Range is 70 feet, atthe end of which
the shooting star explodes, unless it strikes a creature or object before
that. A shooting star always follows a straight line, and any creature in.
its path must make a save or be hit by the projectile.

Indoors at nighr, or underground, the ring of shooting stars has}

\the following properties, 4
\o_Eaerie fire (twice per day) 4
+ _ Spark shower (special, once perday),

‘The spark shower is a flying cloud of sizzling purple sparks that!
fan out from the ring fora distance of 20 feet in. an arc 10 feet wide.
Creatures within this area take 248 points of damage each if not
wearing metal armor or carrying a meral weapon. Those wearing
metal armor and/or carrying a metal weapon take 4d8 points of
damage.

Strong evocation; CL 12th: Forge Ring, light, faerie fire, fireball,
lightning bolt; Price 50,000 gp.

Spell Storing, Minor: A minor ring of spell storing contains up
three levels of spells thar the wearer can cast. Each spell has ai
level equal to the minimum level needed to cast that spell. Th
user need not provide any material components of focus;
pay an XP cost to cast the spell, and there is no arcane
failure chance for wearing armor (because the ting:
wearer need not gesture). The activation time forthe!
ring is same as the casting time for the relevant spell,
jwwith a minimum of 1 standard action.

For axandomly generated ring, treatit asa
scroll to determine what spells are stored in it J
(see the Scrolls section later in this chapter). If
you roll a spell that would pur the ring over the

{three-level limit, ignore that roll; the ring has no
| more spells in it. (Not every newly discovered ring
{need be fully charged.)

A spellcaster can cast any spells into the ring, so long as
the total spell levels do not add up to more than three. Meta-
magic versions of spells take up storage space equal to their spell
level modified by the metamagic feat. A spellcaster
can use.a scroll to put a spell into the minor ring of
spell storing.

 
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   

 

    
 
   
   
    

spell into the ring (1 +.1 + 1.= 3). She could then give the ring toa
druid, who casts the mage armor spell from the ring and then puts
a calm animal spell into the ring. The druid could give the ring toa
barbarian, who. could use all rhe spells but. could not replace any:

‘The xing magically imparts to the wearer the names of all spells
currently stored within it.

Faint evocation; CL Sth; Forge Ring,imbue with spell ability;

{Price 18,000 gp.

Spell Storing: As the minor ring of spell storing, except it holds
up.to five levels of spells,

Moderate evocation; CL 9th; Forge Ring, imbue with spell ability;
Price $0,000 gp.

Spell Storing, Major: As the minor ring of spell storing, except it
holds up to ten levels of spells.

Strong evocation; CL 17th; Forge Ring, imbue with spell ability;
Price 200,000 gp.

Spell Turning: Up to three times. per day_on command, this
simple platinum band automatically reflects the next.nine levels
of spells cast at the wearer, exactly as if spell turning had been cast
wupon.the wearer,

Strong abjuration; CL 13th; Forge Ring, spell turning; Price
98,280 gp.

Sustenance: This ring continually provides its wearer with
life-sustaining nourishment. The ring also refreshes the body and.

mind, so.that its wearer needs only sleep 2 hours per day to gain)
the benefit of 8 hours of sleep. The ring must be worn for a full)

A wizard could cast two. magic missile spells and a. mage armor}

week before it begins to work. If it is removed, the owner must,
wear it foranother week to reattune it to himself.
Faint conjuration; CL Sth; Forge Ring, create food and water: Brice

2,500 gp.
|. Swimming: This silver ring has a wave pattern etched into the |
|band. It continually grants.the wearer a +5. competence bonus on
\Swim checks.

Faint transmutation; CL 2nd; Forge Ring, creator. must have 5
ranks in the Swim skill; Price 2,500 gp.
Swimming, Improved: As swimming,.except it grants a +10)
‘competence bonus on its wearer's Swim checks.
Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Forge Ring, creator. must. have,
10 ranks in the Swim skill; Price 10,000 gp.
Telekinesis: This ring allows the caster to use the spell telekine-
sison command.
Moderate transmutation; CL 9th; Forge Ring, lelckinesis Price
75,000 gp.
Three Wishes: This ring is set with three rubies, Each ruby
stores a wish spell, activated by the ring. When a wish
is used, that ruby disappears. For a randomly gen-
erated ring, roll 1d3.to determine. the remaining.
number of rubies. When all the wishes are used,.
the ring becomes a nonmagical item.

Strong evocation (if mincle is used); CL 20th;
Forge Ring, wish or miracle; Price 97,950 gp; Cost
11,475 gp + 15,918 XP.

Water Walking: This ring. set. with an opal,,
Fallows the wearer to continually utilize the effects of
the spell water walk.

Moderate transmutation; CL 9th; Forge Ring.|
Water walk; Price 15,000 gp. }

Wizardry; This special ring comes in four kinds (ring

jzandry 1, ring of wizandry 11, ring of wizardry IU, and ring of u

dry 1V), all of them useful only to arcane spellcasters, The

| wearer's arcane spells per day are doubled for one specific.spell
evel A ring of wizaniry I doubles 1st-level spells, a ring of wizantry
“i doubles 2nd-level spells, a ring of wizardry 11 doubles 3rd-level
spells, and a ring of wizaniry IV doubles 4th-level spells. Bonus spells
from high ability scores or. school specialization are not doubled.
Moderate (wizardry 1) or strong (wizandry LV) (no school); CL
tith (1), 14th (11), 17th (OUD, 20th (LV); Forge Ring, limited wish;
Price 20,000 gp (1), 40,000 gp (1), 70,000 gp (111), 100,000 gp (IV)

X-Ray Vision: On command, this ring gives its possessor the
ability.t0 see into and shrough solid matter. Vision range is 20 feet,
with the viewer seeing as if he were looking at something in
normal light even if there is no illumination. (For example, ifthe
wearer looks into a locked chest, he can see inside even if there's
no light within.) X-ray vision can. penetrate 1 foot of stone, 1 inch
of common metal, or up to 3 feet of wood or dirt. Thicker sub-
stances ora thin sheet of lead blocks the vision.

Using the ring is physically exhausting, causing the wearer 1
point.of Constitution damage per minute after the first 10 min-
utes of use in asingle day. =

Moderate divination; CL 6th; Forge Ring, true seeing; Price
25,000 gp.

RODS
Rods are scepterlike devices that have unique magical powers rand
do not usually have charges. Anyone can use a rod
Physical Description: Rods weigh approximately. s pounds, |
(They range from 2 feet to 3 feet long and are usually made of iron}
or some.other metal. (Many, as noted in their descriptions, can}
function as light maces or clubs due to their sturdy construction.) |
‘These sturdy items have AC 9, 10 hit points, hardness 10, and a|
jbreak DC of 27.
Activation: Details relating to rod use vary from item to item.
See the individual descriptions for specifics.

  
 
     
    
  
 

 
 
  

 

 
