Enemy Detection: This device pulses in the wielder’s hand
and points in the direction of any creature or creatures hostile to
the bearer of the device (nearest ones first), These creatures.can be
invisible, ethereal, hidden, disguised, or in plain sight. Detection
range is 60 feet. If the bearer of the rod concentrates for a full
round, the rod pinpoints the location of the nearest enemy_and
indicates how. many.enemies are within range, The rod can be
used three times each day, each use lasting up to 10 minutes.
vating the rod is a standard
action.

Moderate divination; CL
10th; Craft Rod, true seeing: Price
23,500 gp.

Flailing: Upon the command
its possessor, the rod activates, changit
from a normal-seeming rod to.a +3 d
flail, The dire flail is a double weapon, which
means that each of the weapon's heads can be
used to attack (see the weapon description on
page 117 of the Player's Handbook). The wielder can
gain an extra attack (with the second head) at the cost
of making all attacks at a -2 penalty (as if she had the
Two-Weapon Fighting feat

Once per day the wielder can use a free action to cause
the rod to grant her a +4 deflection bonus to Arm
and a +4 resistance bonus on saving throws for 10 minutes.
The rod need not be in weapon form to grant this bene
fit, Transforming it into a weapon or back into.arod is a
move action

Moderate enchantment; CL 9th; Craft Rod, Craft
Magic Arms and Armor, bless; Price $0,000 gp.

Flame Extinguishing: This rod can extinguish Medium
‘or smaller nonmagical fires with simply a.rouch (a stan-
dard action). For the rod to be effective against other
sorts of fires, the wielder must expend 1 or more of
the rod’s charges.

Extinguishing a Large or larger nonmagical

re, or a magic fire of Medium or smaller
such as that of a flaming weapon or a burn
ds spell), expends 1 charge. Con
tinual magic flames, such as those of a
weapon or a fire creature, are sup:
pressed for 6 rounds and flare up
again after that time. To extinguish an instantaneous fire spell, the
rod must be within the area.of the effect and the wielder must
have used a ready action, effectively countering the entire spell

When applied to Large or larger magic fires, such as 1
caused by fireball, flame strike, or wall of fire, extinguishing the
flames expends 2 charges from the rod.

Ifthe device is used upon a fire creature (a melee touch attack
it deals 6d6 points of damage to the creature. This use requires 3
charges.

A rod of flame extinguishing has 10 charges when found. Spent
charges are reneswed every day, so that a wielder can expend up to
10 charges in any 24-hour period,

Strong transmutation; CL 12th; Craft Rod, pyrotechnics;
15,000 gp.

Immovable Rod: This rod is a flat iron bar.swith a small button
on one end. When the button is pushed (a move action), the rod
does not move from where itis, even if staying in place defies grav-
ity. Thus, the owner can lift or place the rod wherever he wishes,
push the button, and let go. Adventurers have found the i
able rod-useful for holding ropes, barring doors, and all sorts of
other utilitarian tasks. Many adventurers have found it useful to
have more than one. Sever
ladder when used together (although only two are needed), An
immovable rod can support up to 8,000 pounds before falling to the

  

   

     

Using multiple
immovable rods

 

 

 

 

    

 

ing ha

 

 

    

 

    

 

 

ice

 

   

 

mov

    

 

 

immovable rods can even make a

 

 

ground, If a creature pushes against an immovable rod, it must. make.
a DC.30.Strength check to move the rod up to 10 feet in a single
round.

Moderate transmutation; CL 10th; Craft Rod, levitate; Price.
5,000 gp.

 

Lordly Might: This rod has functions that are spell-like,
and it can also be used as a magic weapon of various
sorts, It also has several more mundane uses. The
rod of lordly might is metal, thicker than other.
rods, with a flanged ball atone end and six
studlike buttons along its length. (Pushing
any of the rod’s buttons is equivalent to
drawing a weapon.) It weighs 10 pounds.

The following spell-like functions of the rod
can each be used once perday..
+ Hold person upon touch

  
  
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
   

  

 

ifthe wielder

 

so commands (Will DC 14 negates). The
wielder must choose to use this power and

then. succeed on a melee touch attack to activate
the power. If the attack fails, the effect is lost.

* Fear upon all enemies viewing it, if the wielder so
desires (10-foot maximum range, Will DC 16
partial). Invoking this power is. standard action

+ Deal 2d¢ hit points of damage to.an opponent.on.
a successful rouch attack (Will DC 17
half) and cure the .wielder_of alike
amount of damage. The wielder.
ust choose.to use this power)
before attacking, as with hold

 

 

 

 

person

The following weapon func
tions of the rod have no limit on the.
number of times they can be employed.
* Initsnormal form, the rod can be used as

 

2 light mace

* When button 1 is. pushed, the_rod
becomes a +1 flaming longswond.A blade
springs from the ball, with the ball itself
‘oming the swond’s hilt. The weapon lengthens to an
overall length of 4 feet.

* When button 2is pushed, the rod becomes a +4 buttleaxe. A
wide blade springs.forth at the ball, and the whole lengthens
to 4 feet.

+ When button 4 is pushed, the rod b
» or +3 langspear. The spear blade springs forth, and the handle
can be lengthened up to 12 feet (wielder’s choice), for an
overall length of from 6 feet to 15 feet. At

a its 15-foot length, the rod is suitable for
u lance.

use as a lay

 

  

  

 

 

comes a +3 shortspear

 

   

 

  

The following other functions of the rod also
have no limit.on the number of times they can be employed.

* Climbing pole/ladder. When button 4 is pushed, a spike that
can_anchor in granite is_extruded from the ball, while the
other end. sprouts three sharp hooks. The rod lengthens to
anywhere between 5 and SO feet in a single round, stopping
when button 4 is pushed again. Horizontal bars three inches
long fold out from the sides, 1 foot apart, in staggered progres-
sion, The rod is firmly held by the spike and hooks and can
bear up to. 4,000 pounds. The wielder can retract the pole by
pushing button 5.

The_ladder function can be used to force open doors. The
wielder plants.the rod’s base 30 feet or less from the portal to be|
rced.and_in line with it, then pushes button 4. The force
erted has a Strength modifier of +12

Then button 6 is pushed, the rod indicates magnetic north ani
gives the wielder a knowledge of his approximate depth be
neath the surface or height above it

  
 

 

 

 

 

   

 
