powers is usable for up to 7 minutes at atime, but aftera flight’

of any duration the cloak cannot bestow any flying power for a
like period of time.

Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, fly; poly
morph; Price 26,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Cloak of Charisma: This lightweight and fashionable cloak has
ahighly decorative silver trim, When in.a character's possession, it)

jadds a +2, +4, or +6 enhancement bonus.to her Charisma score.

Moderate transmutation; CL 8th; Craft Wondrous Item, eagle's |
splendor; Price 4,000 gp. (+2), 16,000 gp (+4), 36,000 gp (+6);}

Weight 2 Ib.

Cloak of Displacement, Minor; This item appears to be a
normal cloak, but when sworn by a character its magical properties
distort and warp light waves. This displacement works similar to
the displacement spell except that it only grants a 20% miss chance
on attacks against the wearer. It functions continually.

Faint illusion; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, displacement; Price
24,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Cloak of Displacement, Major: This item appears to be al

jnormal cloak, but on.command its magical properties dis-
tort and warp light waves. This displacement works
just like the displacement spell and lasts for a total of
15 rounds per day, which the wearer can divide up
as she sees fit

Moderate illusion; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous
Item, Extend Spell, displacement; Price 50,000

(ep; Weight 1 Ib.

Cloak of Elvenkind: This cloak of neutral
gray cloth is indistinguishable from an ordinary
cloak of rhe same color. However, when worn with
the hood drawn up around the head, it gives the
\wearer a +5 competence bonus on Hide checks.

Faint illusion; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item,
invisibility, creator must be an elf; Price 2,500 gp;

Weight 1b.

Cloak of Etherealness: This silvery-gray
cloak seems to absorb light rather than be illu-
minated by it. On command, the cloak makes
its wearer ethereal (as the ethereal jaunt spell).
The effect is dismissible. The cloak works
for a total of up to 10 minutes per day. This
duration need not be. continuous.

Strong transmutation; CL 15th; Craft
Wondrous Item, ethereal jaunt; Price 55,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Cloak of the Manta Ray; This cloak appears to be made of
leather until the wearer enters salt-water. At that time the cloak of
the manta say.adheres to the individual, and he appears nearly
identical to. manta ray (as the polymorph spell, except thar it allows

jonly manta ray form). He gains a +3 natural armor bonus, the abil-
ity to breathe underwater, and a swim speed of 60 feet, like a real
manta ray.

Although the cloak does not enable the wearer to bite oppo-
nents as a manta.ray.does, it does have a tail spine that can be used
to strike at opponents behind he wearer, dealing 1d6 points of
damage. This attack can be used in addition to any other attack the
character has, using his highest melee.attack bonus, The wearer
can release his arms from the cloak without sacrificing under-
water movement if so desired,

Moderate transmutation; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, poly-
morph, water breathing: Price 7,200 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Cloak of Resistance: These garments offer magic protection
[inthe form of a +1 10 +5 resistance bonus on all saving throws (For-
jritude, Reflex, and Will).

Faint abjuration; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, resistance, cre-
sator’s caster level must be at least three times the cloak’s bonus;

Price 1,000 gp (+1), 4,000 gp (+2), 9,000 gp (+3), 16,000 gp (+4)..

25,000 gp.(+5); Weight 1 Ib,

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
   

Crystal Ball: This is the most common form of scrying device,,
acrystal sphere about 6 inches in diameter, A character can_use.|
the device to see over virtually any distance or into other planes |
of existence, as svith the spell crying (Will DC 16 negates), }

Certain crystal balls have additional powers that can be used
through the crystal ball.on.the target viewed.

Crystal Ball Type Market Price
Crystal ball 42,000 gp
Crystal ball with see invisibility 50,000 gp,
Crystal ball with detect thoughts (Will DC 13 negates) 51,000 gp
Grystal ball with telepathy* 70,000 gp
Crystal bail with true seeing 80,000 gp

* The viewer is able to send and receive silent. mental messages with _.
the person appearing in the crystal ball. Once perday the character.
may attempt to implant a suggestion (as the spell, Will. DC.14

__negates) as well,

Moderate divination; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item, scry=,
ing (plus any additional spells put into item); Weight 7 Lb.
Cube of Force: This device is about the size of a large die
(perhaps 3/4 inch across) and can be made of ivory, bone,.
or any hard mineral, It enables its possessor fo put up-2
special wall of force 10 feet on a side around her person.
This.cubic screen moves with the character and is
impervious to the attack forms mentioned on the
table below. The cube has 36 charges, which are|
renewed each day. The possessor presses.one face of |
the cube to activate a particular type of screen or to}
deactivate the device. Each effect costs a certain,
number of charges to maintain for every. minute (or.
portion of a. minute) it is in operation. Also, when.an.
effect is active, the possessor's speed is limited to. the max-|
imum value given on the table.

When the cube of force is active, attacks dealing more.
than 30 points of damage drain 1 charge for every 10
points of damage beyond 30 that they deal (40 points

of damage drains 1 charge, 50 points drains 2 charges,
and so forth). Spells thar affect the integrity of the
screen, suchas disintegrate and passwall, also drain
extra charges. These spells (given in the list
below). cannot be cast into or out of the cube:

 

Cube _ Charge Cost Maximum.

Face _ per Minute Speed Effect

1 1 30 ft. Keeps out gases, wind, etc.

2 2 20 ft Keeps out nonliving matter

3 3 15 ft. Keeps out living matter

4 4 10, Keeps out magic

5 6 WOR. Keeps out all things

6 0 As normal Deactivates

Attack Form, Extra Charges

Horn of blasting 6

Wall of fire 2

Posswall 3

Disintegrate 6

Phase door 5 }
Prismatic spray 7 aed

Moderate evocation; CL 10th; Craft Wondrous Item, wall of force:.|
Price. 62,000 gp. _ _ +

Cube of Frost Resistance: This cube is activated or deacti- |
vated by pressing one side, When activated, it creates a cube-
ishaped area 10 feet on.a side centered on the possessor (or on the
\cube itself, if the item is later placed on a surface). The tempera-
ture within this area is always at least 65°E The field absorbs all

 
