    
    
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
   
       

breath). However, if the field is subjected to. more than 50 points
of cold damage in 1 round (from one.or- multiple attacks), it col-
lapses into its portable form and cannot be reactivated for 1 hour
If the field absorbs more than 100 points of cold damage in a 10-
round period, the cube is destroyed.

Faint abjuration; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, protection from]
jenergy; Price 27,000 gp.

Cubic Gate: This item is fashioned from carnelian. Each of the)

rial Plane. The character creating the item should choose. the
tplanes.to which the other five sides are keyed. If such a cube is
found as treasure, the DM can-determine the planes accessed by
the device in any manner he or she chooses.
Ifa side of the cubic gate is pressed once, it opens a gate toa ran-
dom point on the plane keyed to that side. There is a 10% chance
,per minute that an outsider from that plane (determine randomly)

jthan one gate at atime.

If a side is pressed twice in quick succession, the character so
doing is transported to a random point on the other plane, along
with all creatures in adjacent squares. (The other creatures may
avoid this fate by succeeding on DC 23 Will saves)

Strong conjuration; CL 13th; Craft Wondrous Item, plane shift;
Price 164,000 gp.

Daern’s Instant Fortress: This metal cube is small, but when
Lactivated by speaking a command word it grows to form a tower 20
feet square and 30 feet high, with arrow slits qn all sides and a crenel-
Jated battlement atop it. The metal walls extend 10 feet into the
ground, rooting it to the spot and preventing it from being tipped
jover. The fortress has a small door that opens only atthe command of
jthe owner of the fortress—even knock spells cant open the door.

The adamantine walls of Daern’s instant fortress have 100 hit
points and hardness 20, The fortress cannot be repaired except by
a wish ora minicle, which restores 50 points of damage taken.

The fortress springs up in just 1 round, with the door facing the
device's owner. The door opens.and closes instantly at his com-,
mand, People and creatures nearby (except the owner) must be|
careful not to be caught by the fortress’s sudden growth, Anyone |
so caught takes 10d10 points of damage (Reflex DC 19 half).

The fortress is deactivated by speaking a command word (dif-
ferent from the one used to activate it), It cannot be deactivated
unless it is empty.

Strong conjuration; CL 13th; Craft Wondrous Item, Morden-
kainen’s magnificent. mansion; Price 55,000 gp.

; This skull, carved from ebony, is wholly evil. Wher-
,ever the skull goes, the area around it is treated as though an unhal-
low spell had been cast with the skull as the touched point of origin
{except that no additional spell effectis tied or fixed to the darkskull).

Moderate evocation [evil]; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, unhal-
low, creator must be evil: Price 60,000 gp; Weight 5 Ib.

Decanter of Endless Water; If the stopper is removed from
this ordinary-looking flask and a command word spoken, an
amount of fresh or salt water pours out. Separate command words
determine the type as well as the volume and velocity.

“Stream” pours out 1 gallon per round,
* “Fountain” produces a 5-foot-long stream at 5 gallons per round.
* “Geyser” produces a 20-foot-long,_1-foot-wide stream at 30
gallons per round,

The geyser effect causes considerable back pressure, requiring
ithe holder to make a DC 12 Strength check to avoid being
Jknocked down. The force of the geyser deals 14 points of damage
| but.can only affect one target per round, The command word must
be spoken to stop it

Moderate. transmutation; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, control |
watter; Price 9,000 gp; Weight 2 Ib.

cold-based attacks (such as ice storm, cone of cold.and white dragon |

.six sides of the cube is keyed toa plane, one.of which is the Mate-,

jcomes through it looking for food, fun, or trouble. Pressing the |
jside.a second time closes the gate. Ir is impossible to open more}

   

Deck of Illusions: This set of parchment cards is usually found,
in an ivory, leather, or wooden box. A full deck consists of thirty-
four cards, When acard is drawn at random and thrown te.the,
ground, a majorimage of a creature is formed. The figment lasts until

dispelled. The illusory creature cannot move more than 30 feet away

(from where the card landed, but otherwise moves and acts as if it

jwere real. Ar all times it obeys the desires of the character who drew
the card. When the illusion is dispelled, the card becomes blank and.
cannot be used again. If the card is picked up, the illusion is auto-,

,matically and instantly dispelled. The cards in.a deck and the illu-,

isions they bring forth are summarized on the following table, (Use|
one of the first two.columns to simulate the contents of a full deck.
using either ordinary playing cards or tarot cards.)

Playing Card
Ace of hearts
LKing of hearts

Tarot Card

IV, The Emperor

Knight of swords
and four guards

Creature,
Red dragon
Male human fighter.

Queen ofhearts Queen of staves Female human wizard
i Jack of hearts King of staves Male human druid
Ten of hearts VIL. The Chariot Cloud giant
Nine of hearts Page of staves Extin
Eight of hearts ‘Ace of cups Bugbear
Two of hearts Five of staves Goblin.
Playing Card Tarot Card Creature.
Ace of diamonds —_ I, The Empress Beholder {
King of diamonds__Two of cups Male.elf wizard. and |
female apprentice 4
Queen of diamonds Queen of swords —_—Half-elf ranger
(female)
Jack of diamonds _ XIV, Temperance Harpy
Ten of diamonds Seven of staves Male half-ore barbarian
Nine of diamonds Four of pentacles Ogre mage
Eight of diamonds Ace of pentacles Groll
Two of diamonds Six of pentacies Kobold
Playing Card Tarot Card Creature
Ace of spades I The High Priestess. Lich
King of spades Three of staves Three male
human clerics
Queen of spades Four of cups Medusa
Jack of spades Knight of pentacles Male dwarf paladin
Ten of spades Seven of swords Frost giant
Nine of spades _ Three of swords Troll
Eight of spades Ace of swords Hobgoblin
‘Two of spades Five of cups Goblin
Playing Card ‘Tarot Card Creature
Ace of clubs Vill, Strength Iron golem
King of clubs Page of pentacles Three male
halfling rogues
Queen of clubs Ten of cups Pixies
Jack of clubs Nine of pentacles Female half-elf bard
Ten of clubs Nine of staves Hill giant
Nine of clubs King of swords Ogre
Eight of clubs Ace of staves Ore
Two of clubs Five of cups Kobold
Playing Card Tarot Card Creature ;
Joker Two of pentacles Illusion of deck’s owner
Joker. Two.of staves. Ihusion.of deck's awner._|

(sex reversed)

[Axandomly generated deck is usually complete (11-100 on 4%),
jbur.may_be discovered (01-10) with 1d20 of its cards missing, If

cards are missing, reduce the price by a corresponding amount
