 

Faint illusion; CL 2nd; Craft Wondrous Item, creator must have
5 ranks in the Swim skill; Price 250 gp.

Elixir of Truth: This elixir forces the individual drinking it to
say nothing but the truth for 10 minutes (Will DC 13 negates).
She is compelled to answer any questions put to her in that time, |
bur with each. question she.is free to make.a separate DC 13. Will)
saye. If one of these secondary saves is successful, she doesn't).
{break free of the truth-compelling enchantment but also doesnt,
{have to answer that particular question. No more than one ques-}
-tion.can be.asked each round. This isamind-affecting compulsion,
jenchantment

Faint enchantment; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, zone of truth;

Brice 500 gp.

Elixir of Vision: Drinking this elixir grants the imbiber the
ability to notice acute details with great accuracy (+10 competence
bonus on Search checks for 1 hour).

Faint divination; CL 2nd; Craft Wondrous Item, true secing; Price
250 gp. +

Eversmoking Bottle: This metal urn is identical in appearance.
{roan efreeti bottle, except that it does nothing but smoke. The,
amount of smoke is great if the stopper is pulled out, pouring from
the bortle and totally obscuring vision across a 50-foot spread in 1
round. If the bottle is left unstoppered, the smoke billows our
another 10 feet per round until it has covered a 100-foot radius.
This area remains smoke-filled until the eversmoking bottle is stop-
pered. The bortle must be resealed by a command word, after
jwhich the smoke dissipates normally. A moderate wind (11+ mph)
[disperses the smoke in 4 rounds; a strong wind (21+ mph) dis-
{perses the smoke in 1 round.

Faint transmutation; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, pyrotechnics;

{Price 5,400 gp; Weight 1 Ib.
\Eyes of Charming: These two crystal lenses fit over the user's
jeyes. The wearer is able to use charm person{one target per. round)
\merely by meeting a target's gaze. Those failing a DC 16 Will save
are charmed as per the spell. If the wearer has only one lens, the DC
of the saving throw is reduced to 10,

Moderate enchantment; CL 7th; Craft Wondrous Item, Height-
en Spell, charm person; Price 6,000 gp for a pair,

Eyes of Doom: These crystal lenses fit over the user's eyes, |
enabling him to cast doom upon those around him (one target per,
round) asa gaze attack, except that the wearer must take a standard
action, and those merely looking at the wearer are not affected.
Those failing a DC.11 Will save are affected as by the doom spell. If
the wearer has only one lens, the DC of the saying throw is
reduced to 10. However, if the wearer has both lenses, he gains the
additional power of a continual deathwatch effect and can. use fear
(Will DC 16 partial) as a normal gaze attack once per week.

Moderate nectomancy; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, doom,
{deathwatch, fear; Price 25,000 gp.
| Eyes of the Eagle: These items are made of special crystal and
fit over the eyes of the wearer, These lenses grant a +5 competence
bonus on Spot checks. Wearing only one of the pair causes a char-
acter to become.dizzy and, in effect, stunned for 1 round. There-
after, the wearer can use the single lens without being stunned so
long as she covers her other eye, Of course, she can remove the
single lens and see normally at any-time, or wear both lenses to
end or avoid the dizziness,

Faint divination; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, clairaudience/
datrvoyance; Price 2,500 gp.

Eyes of Petrification: These items are made of special crystal
and fit over the eyes of the wearer. They.allow her to.use.a petrifi-
jcation gaze attack (Fortitude DC 19 negates), such as that of a
basilisk, for 10 rounds per day (see page 24 of the Monster Manual
{for details on the basilisk’s gaze attack), Both lenses must be worn.

for the magic to be effective.

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, flesh .to|
stone; Price 98,000 gp.

 

Figurines of Wondrous Power: Each of the several kinds of
figurines of wondrous power appears to be a miniature statuette of a|
creature. an inch or so high (with one exception). When the fig-|
urine is tossed down and the correct command word spoken, it

{becomes a living creature of normal size (except when noted oth-

jerwise below), The creature. obeys and serves its owner. Unless
stated otherwise, the creature understands Common but does not
speak.

1f a figurine of wondrous power is broken or destroyed in its stat-,
suette form, it is forever ruined. All magic. is lost, its power,

departed. If slain in animal form, the figurine simply reverts 10.2}

statuette that can be used again at a later time,

Bronze Griffon: When animated, a bronze griffon acts in all ways
like a normal griffon under the command of its possessor. The,
item can_be used twice per week for up to.6-hours peruse. When,
6 hours have passed or when the command word is spoken, the

{bnonze griffon once again becomes a tiny statuette.

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-
\mate objects; Price 10,000 gp.

Ebony Fy: When animated, an ebony fly is the size of a pony and!
has all the statistics of a hippogriff (Hit Dice, AC, carrying capac-
ity, speed, and so on; see page 152 of the Monster Manual) but can
make no attacks. The item can be used three times per week for up
to 12 hours per use. When 12 hours have passed or when the com-
mand word is spoken, the ebony fly again becomes a tiny statuette.

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-
mate objects; Price 10,000 gp.

Golden Lions: These figurines come in pairs. tits. They become!
normal adult male lions (see page 274 of the Monster. Manual), If |
slain in combat, the lions cannot be brought back from statuette |
form for one full week, Otherwise, they can be used once per day |
for up to 1 hour. They enlarge and shrink upon speaking the com:
mand word. {

Moderate transmutation; CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-
mate objects; Price 16,500 gp.

Ivory Goats: These figurines come in threes. Each goatof this rio
looks slightly different from the others, and each has. adifferent
function:

* The Goat of Traveling: This. statuette provides a speedy and endur-
ing mount equal to that.of a heavy. horse (see page 273 of the
Monster Manual) in every way except appearance. The goat can
travel for a maximum of one day each week—continuously or
in any combination of periods totaling 24 hours. At this point,
or when the command word is.uttered, it returns to its statuette
form for not less than one day before it can again be used.

The Goat of Travail: This statuette becomes an enormous crea-
ture, larger than a bull, with the statistics of a nightmare (see
page 194 of the Monster Manual) except for the addition of a pair
of wicked horns of exceptional size (damage 1d8+4 for each
horn). If it is charging to attack, it may only use its horns (but
add € points of damage to each successful attack in that round),
Itcan be called to life just once per month for up to 12 hours at
atime.

The Goat of Terror: When called upon with the proper command
word, this statuette becomes a destrierlike mount, with the sta-
tistics of a light warhorse (see page 274 of the Monster Manual).

However, its rider can employ the goat's horns as weapons (one.
hornas.a +3 heavy lance, the other as a +5 longswond), When
ridden_in.an attack against an opponent, the goat of terror.radi-|
ates fear as the spell in a 30-foot radius (Will DC 16 partial), It,
can_be.used once every.two weeks for up to 3 hours per use.
Moderate transmutation;.CL 11th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani:

mate objects; Price 21,000 gp.

Marble Elephant: This is the largest of the figurines, the statuette |
ibeing about the size ofa human hand, Upon utterance of the com-
ymand.word, a marble elephant grows to the size and specifications

ofatrue elephant (see page 272 of the Monster Manual), The animal

 
