 

secret doors, traps, and similar concealed objects. Both lenses
must be worn for the magic to be effective.

Faint divination; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, true seeing; Price
1,250 gp.

Goggles of Night: The lenses of this item are made of dark.

crystal. Even though the lenses are opaque,.when placed over the |

eyes of the wearer they enable him to see normally and also grant}
\him.60-foot darkvision. Both lenses must be worn for the magic.to}
{be effective.

Faint transmutation; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, darkwision; |
|Price.12,000 gp.

Golem Manual: A golem manual contains information, incanta-
{tions and magical power thar help a character to craft a golem (see

page 134 of the Monster Manual). The instructions therein grant a
+5 competence. bonus on skill checks made to craft the golems
body. Each manual also holds the prerequisite spells needed for a
|specific golem, effectively grants the builder use of the Craft Con-
struct feat (see page 303 of the Monster Manual) during the con-)
\struction of the golem, and grants the character an increase to her}
\caster level for the purpose of crafting a golem. Any golem built,
using a golem manual does not cost the creator any XP, since the |
requisite XP are “contained” in the book and “expended” by the
book during the creation process.

The spells included in a golem manual require a spell trigger acti-
vation and can be activated only to assist in the construction of a
golem. The cost of the book does not include the cost of con-

{structing the golem’s body. Once the golem is finished, the writing
jin.the manual fades and the book is. consumed in flames. When
{the book's ashes are sprinkled upon the golem, it becomes fully
animated.

Clay Golem Manual: The book contains animate objects, bless,
(commune, prayer, and resurrection. The reader may_treat her caster
jlevel as two levels higher than normal for the purpose of crafting
laclay golem. The book supplies 1,540 XP for the creation of a clay

golem,

Moderate conjuration, divination, enchantment, and transmu-
tation; CL 11th; Craft Construct, creator must be caster Jevel 11th,
animate objects, commune, prayer, resurrection; Price 12,000 gp; Cost,
2,150 gp+ 1,712 XP; Weight 5 Ib.

Flesh Golem Manual: The book contains animate dead, bull's,

strength, geas/quest, and limited wish, The reader may treat her caster
level as one level higher than normal for the purpose of crafting a
flesh golem. The book supplies 780 X? for the creation of a flesh
golem.

Moderate enchantment, necromancy (evil), and transmutation;
CL 8th; Craft Construct, creator must be caster level sth, animate
dead, bull's strength, geas/quest, limited wish; Price 8,000 gp; Cost

,2,050 gp +944 XP; Weight § Ib.

Iron.Golem Manual: The book contains cloudkill, geas/quest, lim-
|ited wish, and polymorph any. object, The reader may treat her caster
Hevel as four levels higher than normal for the purpose of crafting

a iron golem. The book supplies 5,600 XP for the creation of a iron
golem.

Strong conjuration, enchantment and transmutation; CL 16th;
Craft Construct, creator must be caster level 16th, cloudkill,
geas/quest, limited wish, polymorph any object; Price 35,000 gp; Cost
3,500 gp + 5,880 XP; Weight 5 Ib.

Stone Golem Manual: The book contains. geas/quest, limited wish,
polymorph any object, and slow. The reader may_treat her caster level

jas three levels higher than normal for the purpose of crafting
{stone golem, The book supplies 3,400 XP for the creation of a

{stone golem, __

| Strong abjuration and enchantment; CL 14th; Craft Construct,

Jereator must he caster level 14th, antimagic field, geas/quest, symbol of.
stunning: Price 22,000 gp; Cost 2,500 gp + 3,600 XP; Weight 5 Ib.

Stone Golem Manual, Greater: The book contains geas/quest, lim=)
ited wish, polymorph any object, and slow, The reader may treat her!

caster level.as three levels higher than normal for the purpose.of ,
crafting a stone golem. The book supplies 7,640 XP for the cre-|
ation.of a greater stone golem.

Strong abjuration and enchantment; CL 16th; Craft Constmet.|
{creator must be caster level 16th, antimagic field, geas/quest, symbol of
[stunning; Price 44,000 gp; Cost 2,900 gp +7,872 XP; Weight 5 Ib.

Hand of Glory: This mummified human hand hangs by a
Jeather cord around a.character’s neck (taking up space as a magic
necklace would). If a magic ring is placed on one of the fingers of |

the hand, the wearer benefits from the ring as if wearing it herself,

land it does not count against her two-ring limit. The hand can)
wear only one ting ata time.

‘Even without a ring, the hand itself allows its wearer to use day-
light and see invisibility each once per day,

Faint varied; CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, animate dead, day]
light, detect invisibility; Price 8,000 gp; Weight 2 Ib,

Hand of the Mage: This mummified elf hand hangs by a
{golden chain around a character's neck (taking up space as.a magic,
jnecklace would). Ir allows the wearer to utilize the spell mage hand,
Jat will.

Faint transmutation; CL 2nd; Craft Wondrous Item, mage hand;

Price 900 gp; Weight 2 Ib,

Harp of Charming; This instrument isa golden, intricately
carved harp. When played, it enables the performer to. work one
suggestion (as the spell, Will DC 14 negates) into the music for each
10 minutes of playing if he can succeed on. a DC 14 Perform.
(string instruments) check. If the check fails, the audience cannot,

ibe affected by any_further performances from the harpist for 24)

hours.

Faint enchantment CL Sth; Craft Wondrous Item, supgéstion:|
Price 7,500 gp; Weight 5 Ib.

Hat of Disguise: This apparently normal hat allows its wearer!
to alter her appearance.as with a disguise self spell. As partof the dis-|
guise, the hat can be changed to appear as a comb, ribbon, head-
band, cap, coif, hood, helmet, and so on.

Faint illusion; CL 1st; Craft Wondrous Item, disguise self; Price
1,800 gp,

Headband of Intellect: This device is a light cord with a small
gem set so thar it rests upon_the forehead of the wearer. The head-
band adds to the wearer's Intelligence score in the form of an en-
hancement bonus of +2, +4, or +6, This enhancement bonus does
not earn the wearer extra skill points when anew level is attained;
use the unenhanced Intelligence bonusto determine skill points.

Moderate transmutation; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, fox’s
cunning; Price 4,000 gp (+2), 16,000 gp (+4), 36,000 gp (+6)

Helm of Brilliance: This normal-looking helm takes its true
form and manifests its powers when the user dons it and speaks
the command word. Made of brilliant silver and polished steel, a
newly created helm is set with large magic gems: ten diamonds,
twenty rubies, thirty fire opals, and forty opals, When struck by
bright light, the helm scintillates and sends forth reflective rays in
all directions from its crownlike, gem-tipped spikes. The jewels’
functions are as follows:

* Diamond: Prismatic spmty (save DC 20)

+ Buby: Wall of fire

* Fire opal: Fireball (10d6, Reflex DC 20 half)
* Opal: Daylight

The helm may be used once per round, bur each gem can per-,
form its spell-like power just once. Until all its jewels are depleted, |
a helm of brilliance also has the following magical properties when |

sactivated,

* Itemanates.a bluish light when undead are within 30 feet. This
light causes.1dé points of damage per round.to all such crea-|
tures within that range.

+ The wearer may command any weapon he wields to become a
flaming weapon (see page 224), This is in addition to whatever
abilities the weapon may already have (unless the weapon
