already is a flaming weapon), The command takes 1 round to
take effect

The helm provides resistance to fire 30. This protection does
not stack with similar protection from other sources, such as
resist energy

Once all its jewels have lost their magic, the helm loses its
powers and the gems turn to worthless powder. Removing a jewel
destroys ir.

Ifa creature wearing the helm is damaged by magical fire (after
the fire protection is taken into account) and fails an additional.
DC 15 Will save, the remaining gems.on the helm overload and
detonate. Remaining diamonds become prismatic sprays that each
randomly target a creature within range (possibly the wearer),
rubies become straight-line walls of fire extending ourward in a
random direction from the helm wearer, and fire opals
become fireballs centered on the helm wearer. The opals and
the helm itself are destroyed.

Strong varied; CL 13th; Craft Wondrous Item, detect
undead, fireball, flame blade, prismatic spray, protection
from energy, wall of fine; Price 125,000 gp; Weight 3 Ib,

Helm of Comprehend Languages and Read
Magic: Appearing as a normal helmet, a helm of com=
prehend languages and read magic grants its wearer the
ability to understand the spoken words of any crea
ture and to read text in any language and any magical
writing. The wearer gains a +5 competence bonus on
Decipher Script checks to understand messages
written inincomplete, archaic, or-exotic forms.
Note that understanding a magical text does not
necessarily imply spell us

Faint divination; CL 4th; Craft Wondrous Irem,
compr d languages, read magic; Price 5,200 gp;
Weight 3 Ib,

Helm of Telepathy: The wearer can use dete¢t

 

 

 

   

     

 

   

 

     
    
  
   

pathic message to anyo? ose surface thoughts
he is reading (allowing two-way_communication),
Once per day, the wearer of the helm can implanta
suggestion {as the spell, Will DC 14 negates) along
with his telepathic message.

Faint divination and enchantment, CL Sth; Craft
Wondrous Item, detect. thoughts, suggestion; Price
27,000 gp; Weight 3 Ib,

Helm of Teleportation: A character wear-
ing this device may teleport three times per
day, exactly as if he had cast the spell of the
same name.

Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, tele
Price 73,500 gp; Weight 3 lb.

Helm of Underwater Action: The wearer of this helmet can
see underwater, Drawing the small lenses in compartments on
her side into position before the wearer's eyes activates the
visual properties of the helm, allowing her to see five times farther
than water and light conditions would allow for normal human
Weeds, obstructions, and the like block vision in the usual
manner.) If the command. word. is spoken, the helm of underwater
action creates a globe of air around the wearer's head and maintains
it until the command word is spoken again, enabling her to
breathe freely

Faint transmutation; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, water b
ing; Price 57,000 gp; Weight 3 lb.

Heward's. Handy Haversack: A backpack of this sort appears
to be well made, well used, and quite ordinary, Ir is constructed of
finely tanned leather, and the straps have brass hardware and.
buckles. It has two side pouches, each of which appears large
enough to hold about.a quart of material. In fact, each is like a bag
of holding and can actually hold material of as much as 2 cubic feet

 
 

Helm of
brilliance

   
 
 

 

 

vision.

th

 

 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
      
  
 

involume.or 20 pounds in weight. The large central portion of the

pack can contain up to 8 cubic feet or 80 pounds of material. Even

when so filled, the backpack always weighs only 5 pounds,
While such storage is useful enough, the pack has an even gr

  

er power in addition. When the wearer reaches into it for a specific
item, that item is always on top. Thus, no digging around and fum:
bling is ever necessary to find what a haversack contains. Retriev
ing any specific item froma hayersack is a move action, but it does
not provoke the attacks of opportunity that retrieving a stored
item usually does.

Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Won:
drous Item, Leomund’s secret chest; Price.
2,000 gp; Weight $ Ib,
Horn of Blasting: This horn appears
to be a normal. trumpet. It can be
sounded as a normal horn, but if the
command word is spoken and the
instrument is then played, it deals
5d6 points of sonic damage to crea
tures within a 40- d
causes.them.to be deafened for 2d6
rounds (a DC 16 Fortitude save
duces the damage by half and negates.
the deafening). Crystalline objects and
creatures take 7d6 points of sonic damage,
with no save unless they're held, worn, or
carried by creatures (Will DC 16.
negates
Ifa horn of blasting is used magically
more than once in a given day, there is.
a 20% cumulative chance with cach.
extra use that it explodes and deals
10d6 points of damage to.the person.
sounding it

Moderate evocation; CL 7th; Craft

Wondrous Item, shout; Price 20,000 gp:
Weight 1 Ib.
, Horn of Blasting, Greater: This horn
WAl escionasan bina blasting, except that it deals
10d6 points of sonic damage, stuns creatures for 1 round,
and deafens them for 4dé rounds (a DC 19 Fortitude redi
damage by half and negates the stunning and deafeni
talline objects take 16d6 points of sonic damage as described for
the horn of blasting. A greater. horn of b
tive chance of exploding.

Strong evocation; CL 16th; Craft Wondrous Item, greater sho
Price 70,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Horn of Fog: This small bugle allows its possessor to blow
forth a thick cloud of heavy fog similar to that of an obscuring mist
spell, The fog covers a 10-foot square next to the horn blower each
round that.the user continues to blow the horn; fog clouds trave
10 feet each round in a straight line from the emanation point
unless blocked by something substantial such as a wall. The device
makes a deep, foghornlike noise, with the note dropping abruptly
toa lower register at the end of each blast. The fog dissipates after
3 minutes. A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the fog in 4
rounds; a strong wind (21+ mph) disperses t gin 1 round.

Faint.conjuration; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, obscuring mist;
Price 2,000 gp; Weight 1 lb,

Horn of Goodness/Evil: This trumpet adapts itself to its
owner, so it produces either a good or an evil effect depending on.
e owner's alignment, If the owner is neither good nor evil, the/
horn has no power whatsoever. If he is good, then blowing the
horn has the effect of a magic circle against. evil, If he is evil, then
blowing the horn has the effect of a magic circle against good. In
either.case, this ward lasts for 1 hour. The horn can be blown once
per day.

 
 
 

pot cone a

 

   

 

  

also has a 20% cumula

 

 

  

    

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
