 

* Its wearer can use up to_six.of the embroidered stars on the
chest portion of the robe as +5 shuriken. The robe grants its
wearer proficiency with such weapons. Each shuriken disap-
pears after it is used.

Strong varied; CL 15th; Craft Wondrous Item, magi¢ missile.)

astral projection or plane shift; Price $8,000 gp; Weight 1 lb.

Robe of Useful Items: This appears to be an unremarkable
jrobe, bur a character who dons it notes.that it is adorned with |
{small cloth patches of various shapes, Only the wearer of the robe |.
,can.see these patches, recognize them for what items they,
| become, and detach them, One patch can be detached each round.
LDetaching a patch causes it to become an actual item, as indicated
sbelow. A newly created mbe of useful items always has two each of

the following patches:

© Dagger

* Bullseye lantern (filled and lit)

,* Mirror (a highly polished 2-foot-by-+-foot steel mirror)

»*Pole (10-foor length)

\¢-Hempen rope (50-foot coil) }

} Sack }
In addition, the robe has several other patches. Roll 4d4 for the |

number of other patches and then roll for each patch on the table

below to determine its nature.

6% Result
01-08 Bag of 100 gold pieces
103-15 Coffer, silver (6 in. by 6 in. by 1.ft), 500.gp value

| 16-22 Door, jron (up to.10 ft. wide and 10 ft. high and barred on
‘one side—must be placed upright, attaches and hinges
itself)
23-30 Gems, 10 (100 gp value each)
.31-44 Ladder, wooden (24 ft. long)
145-51 Mule (with saddle bags)

| 52-59 Pit, open (10 ft. by 10 ft. by 10 ft.)

60-68, Potion of cure serious wounds

63-75 Rowboat (12 ft. long)

76-83 Minor scroll of one randomly determined spell
84-90 ‘War dogs, pair (treat as riding dogs)

91-96 Window (2 ft. by 4 ft., up to 2 ft. deep)
97-100 Portable ram

Multiple items of the same kind are permissible. Once removed, a
patch cannot be replaced.

Moderate transmutation;.CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, fabri-
cate; Price 7,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib,

Rope of Climbing: A 60-foot-long mpe of climbing is no thicker
than a wand, but it is strong enough to support 3,000 pounds.
Upon.command, the rope snakes forward, upward, downward, or
jin any. other direction at 10 feet per round, attaching itself
securely wherever its owner desires, It can unfasten itself and

jreturn.in the same manner.

A rope of climbing can be commanded to knot or unknot itself.
This causes large knots to appear.at 1-foor intervals along the rope.
Knotting shortens the rope to. 50-foot length until the knots are
untied but lowers the DC of Climb checks while using it by 10. A
creature must hold one end of the rope when its magic is invoked.

Faint transmutation; CL 3rd; Craft Wondrous Item, animate
rope; Price 3,000 gp; Weight 3 Ib.

Rope of Entanglement: A rope.of culanglement looks just like
+any other hempen rope about 30 feet long. Upon command, the
{tope lashes forward 20 feet or upward 10 feet to entangle.a victim.
jAn entangled creature can break free with a DC 20 Strength check
jora DC 20 Escape Artist check.
|The rope has AC 22, 12 hit points, and hardness 10, and it has

damage reduction 5/slashing as well. The rope repairs damage to
itself at arate of 1 point per § minutes, but if a rope of entanglement)
is severed (all 12 hit points lost to damage), it is destroyed.

Moderate transmutation; CL 12th; Craft Wondrous Item, ani-,
mate objects, animate rope, entangle; Price 21,000 gp; Weight s lb.,

Salve of Slipperiness: This substance provides a +20.compe-|
tence bonus on all Escape Artist checks, meaning that it is almost.

jimpossible to grapple such a character or to tie or chain him up, In
Jaddition, such obstructions as webs (magical or otherwise) do not
jaffect an anointed individual. Magic ropes and the like do not avail

against this salve. If itis smeared on a floor or on steps, the area
should be treated as a long-lasting grease spell. The salve requires 8

shours to wear off normally, or it can be wiped off with an alcohol |

solution (even wine), ;
Salve of slipperiness is needed to coat the inside of acontainer thar.
is meant to hold sovereign glue (see below),
Faint-conjuration; CL éth; Craft Wondrous Item, grease; Price,
1,000 gp. 4
Scabbard of Keen Edges: This scabbard is fashioned from

,cured leather and fine silver. It can shrink or enlarge to accommo-
date any knife, dagger, sword, or similar weapon up to and includ-
singa greatsword, Up.to three times per day on command, the scab-
;bard casts keen edge on any blade placed within it

Faint transmutation; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, keen. edge:
Price 16,000 gp; Weight 1 Ib.

Scarab of Protection: This device appears to be a silver medal-
lion in the shape of a beetle. If it is held for 1 round, an inscription
appears on its surface letting the holder know tharitisa protective
device.

The scarab’s possessor gains spell resistance 20. The scarab can |

salso absorb energy-draining attacks (such as the slam attack of a}

vampire spawn), death effects (such as finger of death), and negative |
energy effects (such as from an inflict critical wounds spell). Upon |
absorbing twelve such attacks, the scarab turns to powder and is|
destroyed.

Strong abjuration and necromancy; CL 18th; Craft Wondrous
Item, death wand, spell resistance; Price 38,000 gp.

Scarab, Golembane: This beetle-shaped pin enables its wearer
to detect any golem within 60 feer, although he must concentrate
(a standard action) in order for the detection to take place. A
scarab enables its possessor to combat golems with weapons,
unarmed attacks, or natural weapons as if those golems had no
damage reduction.

Moderate divination; CL sth; Craft Wondrous Item, detect magic,
creator must be at least 10th level; Price 2,500 gp.

Shrouds of Disintegration: These burial wrappings look to be
made of fine, embroidered materials. When a body is placed
inside, a command word will turn it to dust. The magic of the
shrouds is usable only once, after which the wrappings become
ordinary, fine cloth.

Strong transmutation; CL 15th; Craft Wondrous Item, disinte-
grate; Price 6,600 gp; Weighr 10 Ib.

Silversheen: This substance.can be applied to a weapon as a
standard action. It will give the weapon the properties of alchemi-
cal silver (see page 284) for 1 hour, replacing the properties of any
other special material it might have. For example, a +1 holy
adamantine longsword becomes.a+1 holy silver longsword for the
duration of the effect. One vial will coat a single melee weapon or
20 units of ammunition.

Faint transmutation; CL 5th; Craft Wondrous Item; Price
250 gp.

Slippers of Spider Climbing: When worn, a pair. ofthese slip-|
pers enable movement on vertical surfaces or even upside down)
along ceilings, leaving the wearer's hands free, Her speed is 20)
feet. Severely slippery surfaces—icy, oiled, or greased surfaces—|
make these slippers useless, The slippers.can be used for 10 min-/,
utes per day, split up as the wearer chooses,

Faint transmutation; CL 4th; Craft Wondrous Item, spider climb;

\Price 4,800 gp; Weight 1/2 lb,

Sovereign Glue: This pale amber substance is thick and vis-
