than her level. At that moment and thereafter, the bracers cause a Moderate conjuration; CL 7th; Create Wondrous Item, bestow)

-5 penalty to AC. Once their curse is activated, bracers.of defenseless- curse; Price 2,100 gp.
ness can be removed only by means of a. nmove curse spell. Gauntlets of Fumbling: These gauntlets may be of. supple|

Moderate conjuration; CL 16th; Create Wondrous Item, mage leather or heavy protective material suitable for use with armor,
armor, bestow curse; Price 1,200 gp. {(ring, scale, chain, and so.on)..1n the former instance, they appear

Broom of Animated Attack: This item is indistinguishable in, __10 be gloves of Dexterity In the latter case, they appear to be gauntlets
appearance from a normal broom, It is identical roa broom of flying} __Lof ogre power, The gauntlets perform according to every test as if
‘by all tests short of attempted use. Using it reveals that a broom.of they were gloves of Dexterity or gauntlets of ogre power until the wearer.
animated attack is avery nasty item. 4 finds herself under artack or in a life-and-death situation. At that,

Ifa command (“Fly,” “Go,” “Giddy-up," or some similar word)is|. __,time, the curse is activated. The wearer becomes fumble-fingered, |
spoken, the broom does a loop-the-loop with irs hopeful rider, with a 50% chance each round of dropping anything held in either |

idumping him on his head from 1d4+5 feet off the ground (no hand, The gauntlets also lower Dexterity by 2 points. Once the
falling damage, since the fall is less than 10 feet). The broom then curse is activated, the gloves can be removed only by means of a
attacks the victim, swatting the face with the straw or twig end remove curse spell, a wish, or a miracle. }
and beating him with the handle end. Moderate transmutation; CL 7th; Create Wondrous Ixem, bestow |

The broom gets two attacks per round with each end (two swats curse; Price 1,300 gp.
with the straw and two with the handle, for a total of four attacks. ___Helm of Opposite Alignment: This metal hat looks likeatyp-
per round), It attacks with a +5 bonus on each attack roll. The} _Lical helmet. When placed upon the head, however, its curse imme-
straw.end_causes.a victim to be blinded for 1 round when ithits| {diately takes effect (Will DC 15 negates). On a failed save, the,
‘The handle deals 1d6 points of damage when it hits. The broom, alignment of the wearer is radically altered to an alignment as dif-
has AC 13, 18 hit points, and hardness 4. ferent as possible from the former alignment—good ro evil,

Moderate transmutation; CL 10th; Creare Wondrous Item, fly, chaotic to lawful, neutral to some extreme commitment (LE, LG,,
animate objects; Price 5,200 gp, CE, or CG). Alteration in alignment is mental.as well as moral, and

Cloak of Poisonousness: This cloak is usually made of a the individual changed by the magic thoroughly enjoys his new
woolen material, although it can be made of leather. A detect poison outlook. A character who succeeds on his save can continue to
spell can reveal the presence of poison impregnated in the cloak’s wear the helmet without suffering the effectof the curse, burifhe
fabric. The garment can be handled without harm, but as soon as it takes it off and later puts it on again, another save is required. The,
is actually donned the wearer is killed instantly unless she suc- .curse only works.once; thar is, a character whose alignment has}
ceeds on a DC 28 Fortitude save. been changed cannot change it again by donning the helmet.aj

Once donned,.a cloak of poisonousness can be removed only with second time,

sa remove curse spell; doing this destroys the magical property of the Only a wish or aminacle.can restore former alignment, and. the)
icloak. If a neutralize poison spell is then used, itis possible to revive affected individual does not make any attempt to return to the for-|
the victim with a mise dead or resurrection spell, but_not before. mer alignment. (In fact, he views the prospect with horror and

Strong abjuration; CL 15th; Create Wondrous Item, poison, and avoids it in any way possible.) Ifa character of a class with analign-
limited wish or miracle; Price 62,000 gp. ment requirement is affected, an atonement spell is needed as well

Crystal Hypnosis Ball: This cursed item is indistinguishable if the curse is to be obliterated, When a helm of opposite alignment
froma normal crystal ball. However, anyone attempting to.use the, —_has functioned once, it loses its magical properties.
serying device becomes fascinated for 1dé minutes, and a tele-, Strong transmutation; CL 12th; Create Wondrous Item, creator
pathic suggestion is implanted in his mind (Will DC 19 negates)... must be 12th level; Price 4,000 gp; Weight 3 Ib.

The user of the device believes that the desired creature or scene, Incense of Obsession: These blocks of incense appear to be
was viewed, but actually he came under the influence ofa powerful. ___ incense of meditation, 1f meditation and prayer are conducted while
wizard, lich, or even some power or being from another plane. (The incense.of obsession is burning nearby, its odor and smoke cause the
DM should choose the controller to fit his or her campaign.) Each user to become totally confident that her spell ability is superior,
further use brings the crystal hypnosis ball gazer deeper under the due tothe magic incense. The user is determined to use her spells
influence of the controller, either as a servant or a tool. The DM at every opportunity, even when not needed or when useless. The
decides whether to make this a gradual or sudden affair, according user remains obsessed with her abilities and spells until all have
to the surroundings and circumstances peculiar to the finding of been used or cast, or until 24 hours have elapsed.
the crystal hypnosis ball and the character locating it. Note that Moderate enchantment; CL 6th; Create Wondrous Item, bestow

jthroughout this time, the user remains unaware of his subjugation. curse; Price 200 gp.

Moderate divination; CL 17th; In effect, this is a minor artifact Mace of Blood: This +3 heavy mace must be coated in blood
and cannot be created; Price n/a every day, or its bonus fades away (until the mace is coated again),

Dust of Sneezing and Choking: This fine dust appears to be ‘The character using this mace must make 2 DC 13 Will save every
dust of appearance, If cast into the air, it causes those within a 20- day itis within his possession or become chaotic evil
foot spread to fall into fits of sneezing and coughing. Those failing Moderate abjuration; CL 8th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, cre-
a DC 15 Fortitude save take 2d6 points of Constitution damage ator. must be at least 9th level and chaotic evil; Price 16,000 gp.
immediately, In addition, those failing a second DC 15 Fortitude Medallion of Thought Projection: This device seems like a
save 1 minute later are dealt 1dé points.of Constitution damage. medallion of thoughts, even down to the range at which it functions, |
Those who succeed on either saving throw are nonetheless dis- except that the thoughts overheard are muffled and distorted, re-,
abled by choking (treat as stunned) for Sd¢ rounds. quiring a. DC 15 Will save to sort out. However, while the user}

Faint conjuration; CL 7th; Create Wondrous Item, poison; Price thinks she is picking up the thoughts of others, all she is really |

2.400 gp. hearing are figments created by the medallion itself, These illu-)
Flask of Curses: This item looks like an ordinary beaker, sory thoughts always seem plausible and thus can seriously mis-|
jbortle, container, decanter, flask, or jug. It may contain a liquid, or lead any who rely upon.them. What's worse, unknown to her, the}
Jitmay emit smoke, When the flask is first unstoppered, all within cursed medallion actually broadcasts her thoughts to creatures in
30 feet must make a DC 17 Will save or be cursed, takinga-2. —_the path of the beam, thus alerting them to her presence.
penalty.on attack rolls, saving throws, and skill checks untila, | __ Faint divination; CL 7th; Create Wondrous Item, detect thoughts,

remove curse spell is cast upon them. 4 ghost sound; Price 1,800 gp.

 
