 

Necklace of Strangulation: A necklace of strangulation appears

to be a rare and wondrous piece of valuable jewelry and, short of
the use of something as powerful as a minacle or a wish, can only be
identified as a cursed item when placed around a character's neck

The necklace immediately constricts, dealing 6 points of damage |

per round, It cannot be removed by any means short of a limited

wish, wish, or miracle and remains clasped around the victim's}.

jthroar even after his death. Only when be has decayed to.a.dry

[skeleton (after approximately one month) does the necklace}

jloosen, ready for another victim.

Strong conjuration; CL 18th; Create Wondrous Item, slay living: |
Price 60,000 gp.

_Net of Snaring: This net provides a +3 bonus on attack rolls but
can only be used underwater, thus making it a somewhat useful item
rather than what most would really call a cursed item. Underwater, it
can be commanded to shoot forth up to 30 feet to trap a creature.

Moderate evocation; CL 8th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, free-
\dom-of movement; Price 10,000 gp.

|—Periapt of Foul Rotting: This engraved gem appears to be of]

[little value, If any character keeps the periapt in her possession for,
mote than 24 hours, she contracts a terrible rotting afiliction that
permanently drains 1 point of Dexterity, Constitution, and
Charisma every week. The periapt (and the affliction) can be
removed only by application of a remove curse spell followed by a
cure disease and then a heal, miracle, limited wish, or wish spell. The
rotting can_also be countered by crushing a_periapt of health and

\sprinkling its dust upon the afflicted character (a full-round

jaction), whereupon the periapt of foul rotting likewise crumbles to

idust.

|—Faint abjuration; CL 10th; Create Wondrous Item, contagion;

(Price 17,000 gp,

Potion of Poison; This potion has lost its once beneficial mag-
jical abilities and has become a potent poison. The imbiber must
[make.a DC 16 Fortitude save or take 1di0 points of Constitution

damage..A minute later he must save again (DC 16).or take 1d10
points of Constitution damage.

Moderate conjuration; CL 12th; Craft Wondrous Item, poison;
Price $,000 gp.

Robe of Powerlessness: A robe of powerlessness appears to be a|
magic robe of another sort. As soon as a character dons this gar-)
ment, she takes a—10 penalty to Strength and Intelligence, forget-
ting spells and magic knowledge accordingly. The robe can be
removed easily, but in order to restore mind and body, the charac-
ter must receive a. remove curse spell followed by heal.

Moderate transmutation; CL 13th; Create Wondrous Item,
bestow curse, permanency; Price 5,500 gp.

Robe of Vermin: The wearer notices nothing unusual when
sthe robe is donned, other than that it offers great magical defense
\(as.a cloak of protection +4). However, as soon as he is in a situation
jrequiring concentration and action against hostile opponents, the
[true nature of the garment is revealed: The wearer immediately

suffers a multitude of bites from the insects that magically infest
the garment. He must cease all other activities in order to scratch,
shift the robe, and generally show signs of the extreme discomfort
caused by the bites and movement of these pests.

The wearer takes a—S penalty on initiative checks and a—2
penalty on all attack rolls, saves, and skill checks. If he tries to cast
a spell, he must make a Concentration check (DC 20 + spell level)
or lose the spell.

Moderate abjuration; CL 13th; Create Wondrous Item, summon

|swarm, creator must be atleast 13th level; Price 16,500 gp.

| Ring of Clumsiness: This ring operates exactly like a ring of

Aeather falling. However, it also makes the wearer clumsy, She takes

ja—4penalty.to Dexterity.and has a 20%.chance of spell failure
when trying to.cast any arcane spell that has a somatic component.

 

(This chance of spell failure stacks with other arcane spell failure

chances.)

Strong transmutation; CL 15th; Forge Ring, feather fall, bestow,
curse; Price $00 gp.

Scarab of Death: This small pin appears to be any one of the
various beneficial amulets, brooches, or scarabs. However, if itis,

theld for more than.1 round or carried by a living creature for 1
[minute, it changes into a horrible burrowing beetlelike cres-
\nure. The thing tears through any leather or cloth, burrows into

flesh, and reaches the victim's heart in 1 round, causing death. A
DC 25 Reflex save allows the wearer to tear the scarab away.

before it burrows out.of sight, but he still rakes 3d6 points of |

damage. The beetle then returns to its scarab form. Placing the)
scarab in a container of wood, ceramic, bone. ivory. or metal pre-
vents the monster from coming to life and allows for long-term.
storage of the item.

Strong abjuration; CL 19th; Create Wondrous Item, slay living,
Price 80,000 gp.

Spear, Cursed Backbiter: This is a +2 shortspeay, buteach time

itis used in melee against a foe and the attack roll is 2 natural 1,
sit.damages its wielder instead of her intended target, When the,
jcurse takes effect, the spear curls around to strike its wielder in

the back, auromatically dealing the damage.to the wielder. The
curse even functions when the spear is hurled, and in sucha.case
the damage to the hurler is doubled.

Moderate evocation; CL_10th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor,
bestow curse; Price 7,500 gp.

Stone of Weight (Loadstone): This stone appears to be adark,
smoothly polished stone. It reduces the possessor's base land
speed to one-half of normal, Once picked up, the stone cannot be |
disposed of by any nonmagical means—if it is. thrown away.or}
smashed, it reappears somewhere on his person, If a remove curse,
spell is cast upon aloadstone, the item may be discarded normally,
and no longer haunts the individual,

Faint transmutation; CL 5th; Create Wondrous Item, slow; Price |
1,000 gp.

~2 Sword, Cursed: This longsword performs well against tar-
gets in practice, but when used against an opponent in.combat, it
causes its wielder to take a -2 penalty on attack rolls

All damage dealt is also reduced by 2 points, but never below a
minimum of 1 point of damage on any. successful hit, After one
week in a character's possession, the sword always forces that
character to employ it rather than another weapon. The sword's
owner automatically draws it and fights with it even when she
meant to draw or ready some other weapon, The sword can be
gotten rid of only by. means of limited wish, wish, or miracle.

Strong evocation; CL 15th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, bestow
curse, and limited wish or miracle; Price 1,500 gp.

Sword, Berserking: This item appears to have the characteris-
tics of a +2 greatsword. However, whenever the sword is used in
battle, its wielder goes berserk (gaining all the benefits and draw-
backs of rhe barbarian’s rage ability). He attacks the nearest crea-
ture and continues to fight until unconscious or dead or until no
living thing remains within 30 fees. Although many see this
sword as.a. cursed object, others see itas a boon.

Moderate evocation; CL 8th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, nage,
bestow curse; Price 17,500 gp.

Vacuous Grimoire: A book of this sort looks like a normal
one on some mildly interesting topic. Any character who opens ,
the work and reads so much as a single word therein must
make two DC 15 Will saves. The first is to determine if the,
reader takes 1 point of permanent Intelligence drain, The|

,second is to find our if the reader takes 2 points of permanent}

Wisdom drain. To destroy the book,.a character must burn it
while casting remove curse. If the grimoire is placed with other}

‘hooks, its appearance instantly alters to. conform to the look of
sthose other works,

___ Strong enchantment; CL 20th; Create Wondrous Item, feeble-
mind; Price 6,000 gp.
