enmity of the outsider canitbe ended untilone ofthe parties has hammer),the weapon can be used to full effect: It gains a toral +51

been slain, Determine the outsider randomly, and assume that it enhancement bonus, allows all belt and gauntlet bonuses to stack |
attacks the character (or plagues her life in some way) within (only when_using this weapon), and strikes dead any giant upon}
1d20 days. whom it scores a hit (Fortitude DC 20 negates the death effect but,

Fool: The payment of XP and the redraw are mandatory. This}. _jnot the damage)
card is always discarded when drawn, unlike all others except the, _|_ When hurled, on a successful attack the hammer emits a great
jester. inoise, like a clap of thunder, causing all creatures within 90 feet to

Gem: This card indicates wealth. The jewelry is all gold setwith, [be stunned for 1 round (Fortitude DC 15 negates). The hammers
gems, each piece worth 2,000 gp, the gems 1,000 gp value each.| range increment is 30 feet,

Idiot; This card causes the drain of 1d4+1.points of Intelligence, _,_ Strong evocation, necromancy, and transmutation; CL 20th:
immediately, The additional draw is optional. {Weight 15 Ib.

Jester: This card is always discarded when drawn, unlike all Philosopher's Stone: This rare substance appears to be an ondi-
others except the fool. The redraws are.optional. nary, sooty piece of blackish rock. If the stone is broken open

Key: The magic weapon granted must be one usable by the char- (break DC 20), a cavity is revealed at the stone's heart. This cavity is
acter, use the weapon tables beginning with Table 7-10; Weapon lined with a magical type of quicksilver that enables any arcane.
‘Type Determination until a useful item is awarded. It suddenly spellcaster to transmute base metals (iron and lead) into-silverand
appears.out of nowhere in the character's hand. gold. A single philosopher's stone can turn from up to 5,000. pounds

Knight: The fighter appears out of nowhere and serves loyally, _of iron into silver, or up to 1,000 pounds of lead into gold. How-
until death. He or she is of the same race (or kind) and gender.as| _jever, the quicksilver becomes unstable once the stone is opened .
ithe character. (See Chapter 4 of this book for typical NPC statistics, —_,and loses its potency within 24 hours, so all transmutations must
for a 4th-level fighter.) take place within that period,

Moon; This card sometimes bears the image of a moonstone gem The quicksilver found in the center of the stone may also be pur,
with the appropriate number of wishes shown as gleams therein; to.another use, If mixed with any cure potion while the substance
sometimes it depicts a moon with its phase indicating the number is still potent, it creates a special oil of life that acts.as.a true nesurnec~
of wishes (full = four; gibbous = three; half = rwo; quarter = one). tion spell for any dead body it is sprinkled upon.

‘These wishes are the same as those granted by the 9th-level wizard Strong transmutation; CL 20th; Weight 3 Jb.
spell and must be used within a number of minutes equal to the Sphere of Annihilation: A sphere of annihilation is. a globe of|
jnumber received, jabsolute blackness, a ball of nothingness 2 feet in diameter. The |

Rogue: When this card is drawn, one of the character's NPC object is actually a hole in the continuity of the multiverse. Any.
friends (preferably a cohort) is totally alienated and forever after matter that comes in contact with a sphere is instantly sucked into
hostile. If the character has no cohorts, the enmity.of some pow- the void, gone, and.utterly destroyed, Only the direct intervention.
erful personage (or community, or religious order) can be substi- of a deity can restore an annihilated character.

‘nated, The hatred is secret until the time is ripe for it to be revealed A sphere of annihilation is static, resting in some spots if it were
| with devastating effect. anormal hole. It can be caused to move, however, by mental effort

Ruin: As implied by its name, when this card is drawn, all non- (think of this as a mundane form of telekinesis, too weak.to. move
magical possessions of the drawer are lost. actual objects but a force to which the sphere, being weightless, is

Skull: A dread wraith (see page 258 of the Monster Manual) sensitive). A character's ability to gain control of a sphere of annihi-
appears. Treat this creature as an unturnable undead. Thecharacter, _lation (or to keep controlling one) is based on the result of a con:
must fight it alone—if others help, they get dread wraiths to fight) trol check against DC 30 (amoye action), A control check is 1420
as well. If the character is slain, she is slain forever and cannothe|. __+ character level + character Int modifier. If the check succeeds,
revived, even with a wish.ora miracle, the character can move the sphere (perhaps to bring it into contact

Star: The 2 points are added to any.ability the character chooses.) with an.enemy) as a free action.

They cannot be divided among nwo abilities. Control of a sphere.can he established from as far away as 40

Sun: Roll fora medium wondrous item (Table 7-28: Medium feet (the character need notapproach too closely). Once control is
Wondrous Items) until a usefull item is indicated, established, it must be maintained by continuing to make control

Talons: When this card is drawn, every magic item owned or checks (all DC 30) each round. For as long as a character maintains
possessed by the character is instantly and irrevocably gone. control (does not fail a check) in subsequent rounds, he can con-

Throne: The character becomes a true leader in people's eyes. The trol the sphere from a distance.of 40 feet + 10 feet per character

castle gained appears in any open area she wishes (but the decision level. The sphere’s speed in a round is 10 feet +5 feet for every 5
where to place it must be made within 1 hour). points by which the character's control check result in that round.

Vizier: This card empowers the character drawing it with the exceeded 30.
one-time ability to.call upon.a source of wisdom to solve any If a.control check fails, the sphere slides 10 feet in the direction
single problem or answer fully any.question upon her request. The of the character attempting to. move it.
query or request. must be made within one year. Whether the If two or more creatures vie for control of a sphere of annihilation,
information gained can be successfully acted upon is another the rolls are opposed. If none.are successful, the sphere slips
question entirely, toward the one who rolled lowest.

The Void: This black card spells instant disaster. The character's Should a gate spell be cast upon a sphere of annihilation, there is.a |

body continues to function, as though comatose, but her psyche is 50% chance (01-50 on d%) thar the spell destroys it, a 35%.chance |
trapped in a prison somewhere—in an object on a far plane or (51-85) that the spell does nothing, and a 15% chance (86-100) thar}

.planet, possibly in the possession.of an outsider. A wish.or a mint- a gap is torn in the spatial fabric, catapulting everything within aj
cle does not bring the character back, instead merely revealing the 180-foot radius into another plane (see page 151 fora way.to deter-)
yplane of entrapment. Draw.no more cards, mine this randomly), Ifa rod of cancellation touches a sphere of anni-}
| _ Strong (all schools); CL 20th.  hilation, they negate cach other in a.tremendous explosion, Every-_

|_Hammer of Thunderbolts: This +3 Large returning warhammer. \thing within a 60-foot radius takes 2d6x10 points of damage. Dispel
deals. 4d6 points of damage on any hit. Further, if the wielder (magic and Mordenkainen’s disjunction have no effect on a sphere.
wears a helt of giant Strength and gauntlets of ogre powerand he knows|. —_|__See-also talisman of the sphere (below).

that. the hammer is a hammer of thunderbolts (not just a +3 war-) Strong transmutation; CL 20th,

 
