      
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
         

scribed with sigils and runes of all types, this potent artifact con-

tains many spell powers and other functions. Some of its powers

use charges, while others. dont. The following powers do not use

charges:

* Detect magic

Enlarge person (Fortitude DC 15 negates)

Hold portal

Light

Mage armor

‘Mage hand

The following powers drain 1 charge per usage:

Dispel magic

Fireball (10d6 damage, Reflex DC 17 half)

Ice storm

Invisibility.

Knock

Lightning bolt (10d6 damage, Reflex DC 17 half)

Passwall

Pyrotechnics (Will or Fortitude DC 16 negates)

‘Wall of fire

Web

These powers drain 2 charges per usage:

Monster summoning IX

Plane shift (Will DC 21 negates)

Telekinesis (400 Ib, maximum weighs, Will DC 19 negates)

|__A staff of the magi gives the wielder spell resistance 23. If this is
Lwillingly lowered, however, the staff can also be used to absorb
jarcane spell energy directed at its wielder, as a rod of absorption
{(page 234) does. Unlike the rod, this staff converts spell levels into.
icharges rather than retaining them as spell energy usable by a
|spellcaster. If the staff absorbs enough spell levels to exceed its
limit of 50 charges, it explodes as if a retributive strike had been
performed (see below), The wielder has no idea how many spell
levels are cast at her, for the staff does not communicate this
knowledge as a rod of absorption does, (Thus, absorbing spells can
be risky.)

Retributive Strike: A staff of the magi can be broken for a retribu-_
tive strike. Such an act must be purposeful and declared by the
wielder. All charges in the staff are released in a 30-foot spread. All,
within 10 feet of the broken staff take hit points of damage equal,
to 8 times the number of charges in the staff, those between 11
feet and 20 feet away take points equal to 6 times the number of
charges, and those 21 feet to 30 feet distant take 4 times the
number of charges. A DC 17 Reflex save reduces damage by half.

The character breaking the staff has a 50% chance (01-S0.on d%)
of traveling to another plane of existence (see Table 5-7, page 151),
but if she does not (51-100), the explosive release of spell energy
{destroys her. Only specific items, including the staff of the magi and
jthe staff of power (page 245), are capable ofa retributive strike.

Strong (all schools); CL 20th; Weight 5 Ib,

Talisman of Pure Good: A good (LG, NG, CG) divine spell-
caster who possesses this item can cause a flaming crack to open at
the feet of an evil (LE, NE, CE) divine spellcaster who is up to 100
feet away. The intended victim is swallowed up forever and sent
hurtling to the center of the earth. The wielder of the talisman
must be good, and if he is not exceptionally pure in. thought and
deed (DM's discretion), the evil character gains a. DC 19 Reflex
saving throw to leap away from the crack. Obviously, the target

_ ust be standing on solid ground for this item to function. (In the
air, in.a high tower, or on.a ship are all places of safety against this

otherwise potent item.)

| A talisman of pure good has 6 charges. If a neutral (LN, N, CN)

idivine spelleaster touches one of these stones, he takes 6d6 points.
of damage. Jf an evil divine spellcaster touches one, he takes 8d6
points of damage. All other characters are unaffected by the device. |

Strong evocation [good]; CL 18th.

Staff of the Magi: A long wooden staff, shod in iron and in-

Talisman of the Sphere: This small adamantine loop and
handle are_useless to those unable to cast arcane spells. Characters!
who cannot cast arcane spells take 5d6 points of damage merely
from picking upand holding a talisman of this sort. However, when.

jbeld by an arcane spellcaster who is concentrating on control of 9
sphere of annihilation (page 279), a talisman of the sphere doubles the
character's modifier on his control check (doubling both his Intelli:
gence bonus and his character level for this purpose).

If the wielder of a talisman establishes control, he need check
.for maintaining control only every other round thereafter, If con-
itrol is not established, the sphere moves toward him, Note that)

while many spells and effects of cancellation have.no effect upon
a sphere of annihilation, the talisman's power of control can. be sup-
pressed or canceled.

Strong transmutation; CL 16th; Weight 1 Jb.

Talisman of Ultimate Evil: An evil (LE, NE, CE) divine spell-,
caster who possesses this item can cause a flaming crack to. open at
ithe feet of a good (LG, NG, CG) divine spellcaster who is up to 100
feet away, The intended victim is swallowed up forever and sent,
jhurtling to the center of the earth. The wielder of the talisman
must be evil, and if she is not exceptionally foul and perverse in
the sights of her evil deity (DM's discretion), the good character
gains a DC 19 Reflex save.to leap away from the crack. Obviously,
the target must be standing on solid ground for this item to fun:
tion. (In the air, in a high tower, or on a ship are all places of safety
against this otherwise potent item.)

A talisman of ultimate evil has 6 charges, If a neutral (LN, N, CN)
{divine spellcaster touches one of these stones, she takes 6d6 points)
of damage. If a good divine spellcaster touches one, she takes 8d6 |
points of damage. All other characters are unaffected by the device.

Strong evocation [evil]; CL 18th.

Talisman of Zagy: A talisman of this sort appears the same.as.a,
stone of controlling earth elementals. Its powers are quite different,,
however, and dependent on the Charisma of the individual hold-
ing the talisman. Whenever a character touches a talisman.of Zagy.
he must make a DC 15 Charisma check.

If he fails, the device acts as a stone of weight (page 276), Discard-
ing or destroying it results in 5d6 points of damage to the charac-
ter and the disappearance of the talisman,

If he succeeds, the talisman remains with the character for 5d6
hours, or until a wish is made with it, whichever comes first. It
then disappears.

Ifhe rolls a natural 20, the character finds it impossible to be rid
of the talisman for as many.months.as he has points of Charisma.
In addition, the artifact grants him one wish for every 6 points of
the character's Charisma. It also grows warm and throbs whenever
its possessor comes within 20 feet of a mechanical or magic trap.
(1f the talisman is not held, its warning heat and pulses are of no
avail.)

Regardless of which reaction results, a talisman of Zagy disap-
pears when its time period expires, leaving behind a 10,000 gp
diamond in its stead.

Strong conjuration; CL 20th; Weight 1 Ib.

MAJOR ARTIFACTS

Major artifacts are unique items—only one of each such item
exists. Each has a long history, and the tales told of them are fan-;
tastic ....and usually fraught with error and misconception. Major
artifacts are secretive things, their current whereabouts unknown,
waiting to be found and once again unleashed upon.the world.

Never introduce a major artifact into a campaign without care-)

ful consideration. These are. the most potent of magic items, capa-,
ble of altering rhe balance of a campaign.

Unlike all other magic items, major artifacts are not easily de-|
istroyed. Each should have only a single, specific means of destruc-
\tion, determined ahead of time by you. For example, a specific arti-
fact might be undone by one of the following means:

 

 
