Throwing it into the volcano lair of the dragon Uthrax.
Crushed under the heel of ademigod. _

Buried in the Rift of Corrosion in the Abyss.

Disintegrated while placed at the base of the Infinite Staircase.
Devoured by Talos, the triple iron golem, 4
Immersed_in the Fountain of Light in the holy Halls of}
Heironeous himself. 4
| Because the means of destruction of a major artifact are so diffi-,
{cult, such an item is often buried in.a deep vault, thrown into the}
Astral Plane, or placed behind extremely powerful and untiring |
guardians by those without the power, knowledge, or wherewithal
to destroy it.

Major Artifact Descriptions
The artifacts presented here are meant to be examples. Artifacts
should be tailored to fit. your individual campaign and its history:
The discovery of a major artifact should be a campaign-defining
,moment. Feel free to change the powers of the example artifacts |
(given here in order to customize these artifacts to your campaign.

The Hand and Eye of Veena: The archlich Vecna may have,
been the most powerful wizard ever to have lived. He may also,
have been the most evil. Apparently risen now to deityhood, he
left behind relics embodying remnants of his power—the mum-
mified remains of his hand and his eye.

Powers of the Eye: In order to function, the Eye of Veena must be
placed in the empty socket of a character's skull. The bearer of the
Eye loses 2 points of Charisma, and these points may never be

Lrestored, The Eye may not thereafter be removed without resulting
in the death of its host. It grants the host continuous darkvision and
true seeing. Three times per day each, the host.can use the spells eye-
bite and domination. Once per day, the bearer of the Eye can call

(forth destruction and unhallow. A nonevil character must make a DC
17 Will save each week to avoid becoming evil. All powers are at

caster level 20th, and all DCs to resist their effects are 20,

Powers of the Hand: In order to function, the Hand of Vecna must
be placed.on the end of a left arm whose original hand has been
severed, The bearer of the Hand loses 2 points of Dexterity that
may never be regained. Removal of the hand thereafter always,
results in the death of the host. The touch of the Hand, once so.
placed, deals 1410 points of cold damage to a target. Three times |
per day, its touch can permanently drain 1 ability score point.
(host's choice of ability) from a victim. The host gains the points
drained for the rest of thar day, (They last until the next sunrise.)
Once per day, the bearer of the Hand.can call upon blasphemy and
unholy aum.A nonevil character must make a DC-17 Will save
each week to avoid becoming evil. All powers are at caster level
20th, and all DCs to resist their effects are 20.

Powers with Both Artifacts: If a single character bears both the
Hand of Veena and the Eye of Veena, the DC to resist all powers of

both items increases to 25, The host gains +2 to Strength and +2 to
Intelligence but takes a -2 penalty to Wisdom. She can call upon
summon monster IX once per day (to summon evil outsiders only).
A nonevil character who possesses both items must make a DC 23
Will save each week to avoid becoming evil.

The Mace of Cuthbert: St. Cuthbert, tales say, once walked the
earth as a man. When he did, he used a potent weapon to strike
against the infidels and evil beings he encountered everywhere he
went. Today, this relic appears to. be.a simple, well-used cudgel, but
its simple appearance hides great power, The Mace of Cuthbert has a
+5 enhancement bonus and functions as a heavy mace.swith the
holy, lawful, and disruption special abilities. The wielder can proj-

ject searing light from the mace at will, at. caster level 20th.

|The Moaning Diamond: Said to have been ripped from the

| ground. ina ritual that tortured the earth itself, the Meaning Dia-
mond appears to be an uncut diamond the size of a human fist. At
all times, it gives forth a baleful moaning sound, as if in pain..
Despite. the noise, the Moaning Diamond is not evil (although it

was birthed in torture), The wielder of the stone can, three times,
per day, call upon it to reshape earth and stone as if by the spell,
stone shape, affecting 5,000 cubic feet of material. The Moaning Dia-|
mond can summon an.elder earth elemental with maximum hit,
{points that serves the caster.unril it is slain. Only one such ele-
{mental can be summoned at a time; if it is slain, a new creature
,cannot be summoned for 24 hours. Tales from the past tell of the
Moaning Diamond creating stone structures, opening under-
ground chambers where there had been none before, and collaps-,
Ling entire castles. =: J
The Orbs of Dragonkind: These fabled Orbs were created eons,
ago in order to master.dragons in the great Dragon Wars. Each
contains the essence and personality of an ancient dragon of a dif
ferent variety (one for each of the major ren different chromatic ,
and metallic dragons). The bearer of an Orb can dominate dragons |
of its particular variety within 500 feet (as dominate monster), the
{dragon being forced to make a DC 25 Will save to resist.(Spell
[resistance is not useful against this effect.) Each Orb of Dragonkind ,
\bestows upon the wielder the AC and saving throw bonuses of the.
jdragon within (see the Monster Manual for details on each dragon
variety). These values replace whatever values the character would ,
otherwise have, whether they are better or worse, These values,
cannot be modified by any means short of ridding the character of |
the Orb. A character possessing an Orb of Dnigenkind is immune to.
the breath weapon—but only the breath weapon—of the dragon
variety keyed to the Orb, Thus, the possessor of the Red Dragon Orb.
of Dragonkind is immune to red dragon breath, but not fire of any
other sort. Finally, a character possessing an Orb can herself use
the breath weapon of the dragon in the Orb three times.per day!
(see the Monster Manual). meen 4
All Orbs of Dragonkind can be used to communicate verbally and,
visually with the possessors of the other Orbs. The owner of an Orb}
knows whether there are dragons within 10 miles at all times. For,
dragons of the Orb’s particular variety, the range is 100 miles. If
within 1 mile of a dragon of the Orb'’s variety, the wielder can
determine the exact location and age of the creature. The bearer of
one of these Orbs earns the enmity forever of all dragonkind for
profiting by the enslavement of one of their kin, even if she later
loses the item.
Each Orb also has an individual power that can be invoked once
per round at 10th caster level.
* Black Dragon Orb: Fly:(SWill DC 17 negates),
* Blue Dragon. Orb: Haste (Fortitude DC 17 negates).
Brass Dragon Orb: Teleport (Will DC 19 negates),
Bronze Dragon Orb: Serying (Will DC 18 negates).
Copper Dragon Orb: Suggestion (Will DC 17 negates)
Gold Dmigon Orb: The owner of the gold Orb can call upon any
power possessed by one of the other Orbs—including the domi-
nate and breath weapon abilities but not AC, save bonuses, or
breath weapon immunity—bur_can only use an individual
power once per day. She can use dominate on any other posses-
sor of an Orh,within 1 mile (Will DC 23 negates),
Green. Dragon Orb: Spectral hand.
Red Dragon Orly, Will of fire.
Silver Dmagon.Orb: Cure critical wounds (Will DC 18 half).
White Dragon Orb: Protection from energy (cold) (Fortitude DC 17
negates). i }
The Shadowstaff: This artifact was crafted centuries ago, weay=)
ing together the wispy.strands of shadow itself into a twisted black.
staff. The Shadowstaff makes the wielder slightly shadowy and)
incorporeal, granting him a +4 bonus to AC and Reflex saves)
(which stacks with any other bonuses), However, in bright light)
(such as.that of rhe sun, but not a torch) or in absolute darkness, |
(the wielder takes a—2 penalty.on all attack rolls, saves, and checks,
{The Shadawstaff also has these powers.
| Summon. Shadows: Three times per day the staff may summon
2d4.shadows (see page 221 of the Monster Manual), Immune to

 
