increase its effectiveness, or quicken.a spell to allow it.to be used
as a free action, placing it within an item atthe higher metamagic
level. See Chapter 5: Feats in. the Player's Handbook for more on
metamagic feats.

Magic supplies for items are always half of the base price in gp)
and 1/25 of the base price in XP. For many items, the market price
equals the base price. For example, a cloak of elvenkind has a market}

\price (and base price) of 2,500 gp. Making one costs 1,250 gp. in
raw materials plus 100 XP.

Armor, shields, weapons, and items with a value independentof,
their magically enhanced properties add their item cost to the
|market price. The item cost does not influence the base price
(which determines the cost of magic supplies and the experience
point cost), but it does increase the final market price,

In addition, some items cast or replicate spells with costly
material components or with XP components. For these items,
athe market price equals the base price plus an extra price for the.
spell component costs. Each XP in the component costs adds 5 gp,

\to.the market price. The cost to create these items is the magic)
isupplies cost and the base XP cost (both determined by the base,
price) plus the costs for the components. For example, a ring of
three wishes has a market price of 97,950 gp, which includes 75,000
gp for the extra 15,000 XP that the creator must expend to forge
the ring. The ring’s base price is only 22,950 gp (the market price
minus the extra cost for the XP expenditure). Descriptions of
these items include an entry thar gives the total cost of creating
ithe item. (You don't have to calculate creation. costs for these

litems, It's done for you.) _

The creator also needs a fairly quiet, comfortable, and well-lit
place in which to work. Any place suitable for preparing spells
(see Preparing Wizard Spells, page 177 of the Player's Handbook)

lis suitable for making items. Creating an item requires one day
,per 1,000 gp in the item's base price, with a minimum of ar least
lone day, Potions are an exception to this rule; they always take
just one day.to brew. The character must spend the gold and XP
at the beginning of the construction process.

The caster works for 8 hours each day. He cannot rush the.
process by working longer each day. Bur the days need not be con-,
secutive, and the caster can use the rest of his time as he sees fit_A
character who takes a break from item creation to adventure}
should keep track of how many days of work remain on that item.

A character can work on only one item at a time. If a character
starts work on a new item, all materials used and XP spent on the
under-construction item are wasted.

The secrets of creating artifacts are long lost.

MASTERWORK ITEMS

{As detailed on pages 122 and 126 of the Player's Handbook, mas-
jterwork items are extraordinarily well-made items. They are
moreexpensive, but they benefit the user with improved qual-
ity, They are not magical in any way. However, only masterwork
items may be enhanced to become magic armor and weapons.
(Items that are not weapons or armor may or may not be mas-
terwork items.) ____ =

     

BEHIND THE CURTAIN:

SPECIAL WEAPONS MATERIALS

Each of the special materials described in this section has a definite
game effect. Some creatures, such as fey, have damage reduction
based on their creature type or core concept. Some are resistant to all
but a special type of damage, such as that dealt by evibaligned
weapons or bludgeoning weapons. Others are vulnerable to weapons
of a particular material. Fey tend to be susceptible to cold iron.
Combating golems is best done with adamantine weapons.

 

 

 

SPECIAL MATERIALS |
In addition.to magic items created with spells, some substances}
have innate special properties. While only a few such materials are}
presented here, other special materials may exist in a given cam-|

{paign. If you make a suit of armor.or weapon out of more than one

Tspecial material, you get the benefit of only the most prevalent
lmaterial. For example, full plate made of both adamantine and
mithral will either provide damage reduction or lower weight, not
both. However, you.can build a double weapon with each head ,
umade of a different special material. A dire flail, for example, could |
have an alchemical silver head for fighting lycanthropes and a
cold iron head for fighting fey.

Adamantine: Found only in meteorites and the rarest of veins in
magical areas, this ultrahard metal adds to the quality.of a weapon or ,
suit of armor. Weapons fashioned from adamantine have a natural
ability to bypass hardness when sundering weapons or attacking

Jobjects, ignoring hardness less than 20, Armot made from adaman-
Tine grants its wearer damage reduction of 1/~ if it’ light armor, 2/—
\if it's medium armor, and 3/- if it's heavy armor. Adamantine is s0 ,
‘costly that weapons and armor made from it are always of master-
work qualiry; the masterwork cost is included in the prices given,
below. Thus, adamantine weapons.and ammunition havea +1,
enhancement bonus on attack rolls, and the armor check penalty of |
adamantine armoris lessened by 1 compared to ordinary.armor of its.
type. Items without metal parts cannot be made from adamantine.
An arrow could be made of adamantine, but quarterstaff could not.

‘Only weapons, armor, and shields normally made of metal can
be fashioned from adamantine. Weapons, armor and shields nor-}
mally made of steel that are made of adamantine have one-third |
more hit points than normal; for instance, an adamantine great-,
sword has 13 hit points instead of the normal 10 for steel, Adaman-}
tine has 40 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 20

 

Type of Adamantine Item Item Cost Modifier
‘Ammunition +60 gp
Light armor +5,000 gp
Medium armor 410,000 gp
Heavy armor +15,000 gp
Weapon +3,000 gp

Darkwood: This rare magic wood is as hard as normal wood
bur very.light. Any wooden or mostly wooden item (such as a bow,
an arrow, or a spear) made from darkwood is considered a master-
work item and weighs only halfas much as. a normal wooden item
of that type. Items not normally made of wood or only partially of
wood (such as.a battleaxe or a mace) either cannot be made from
darkwood or do not gain any special benefit from being made of
darkwood. The armor check penalty of a darkwood shield is less-
ened by 2. compared to an ordinary shield of its type. To determine
the price of a darkwood item, use the original weight but add 10 gp
per pound to the price of a masterwork version of that item.

Darkwood has 10 hit points per inch of thickness and hard-
ness S_

Dragonhide: Armorsmiths can work with the hides of dragons
to produce.armor or shields of masterwork quality. One dragon.

 

Characters may choose to carry several different types of weapons,
depending upon the campaign and types of creatures they most
commonly encounter, Some may use silversheen, described on page
266, designed to temporarily add the property of alchemical silver to 3
weapon. Its cost was carefully considered so as not to let silversheen
overshadow weapons actually containing alchemical silver, You'll also
notice that cold ironsheen is not mentioned. This is intentional. Cold
iron's core attribute is its resistance to magic. Making a magic item
that mimics this attribute undermines its concept.

     

 

 

 
