  
  
   

 
 

S $
Dpear «
“trendth

Giardiar shafve

 

his chiiprehas three parts: Special Abilities,Condition
Summary, and The Environment. Throughout the game,
youll find referénces to specialdbilities of all kinds—rays:
of énergy:life-numbing touches, and the ability 6 become
insobstantial, ‘to name a few, This section identifies theamost
significanpabilities and provides details on how to use thei
and whar they Took like:
Following thi§ section yowean find a comprehensive sum:
mary-of character conditions, such as panicked, paralyzed, and
YW)” helpless. fa characterfalls'yictim to any sort of debilitation ot
strange effect, tefer to that condition’ listing for how to handle
the situation.
Finally, perils of the environment such as drowning, and the
effects of heatand cold are covered in the closing séttion:

AQ ate

} Asspecial ability is eitherextraordinary, spell-like, or supernatural
in nature.

Extraordinary Abilities (Ex); Extraordinary abilities are. non:
magical. They afe, however, not something that just anyone can
db or eyen learn to dawithout extensive training (which, in game
terms, meansite take-a new character class), A monk’ ability to
evade attacks and a barbarian’s uncanny dodge are éxtraordinary
ubiliriegakffectsorateas that negate ot disrupt magic have no
effect on extraordinary abilities.

Spell-Like Abilities (Sp): Spell-like abilities) as the name
implies, are spellf anid magical abilities that are very much like
spells-Spellike abilities are subject t spell resisrance.and dispel
magic. They do not function in areas where magic is suppressed'or
negated (Suchasan antimagiofield),

       
 

 

 

 

 

 

Dy

ai

SLO,

RAV S

peasy Qmyy

    
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
    

Supernatural Abilities (Su): Sypernatural abilities are
magical but not spell-like. This fat-reaehir
includes the basilisk’ pettifying state, dhe mon
and the ghoul paralyti¢ touch. Supefnarural abilities are
not subject to spell resistmegand do ngpfutiction in areas
wWhére. magicnis Suppressedor ‘negated (such as an
anfiynagic field). A, SperBarural ebility'sefiect cannot be
dispelled and is nat subject tetcounterspells.

SceTable <1, on the next pages for a summary of the
types. of special abilities.

   

LHS adldVHO

ABILITY SCORE'LOSS
An undead shadow:touches Tordek, and his axe immedi
ately feels heavier in his hand_ A giant wasp stings
Mialee, and her notmally graceful movements bécome
halting and stiff
Various attacks caiise ability score loss, either ability
Yamagevor ability drain. Points lost to ability damage
returmat, thé rate of 1 point per day (or double that if
the character géts complete bed rest) to each dam-
aged ability/and the spells lesser testonatiow and yestora-
tion oftsevability damage'ss well. Ability draft, how-
ever, is permanent, though resfonition catxestore
even those lost ability score points
While any loss is debilitating, losing all points in
an ability'score can be devastating
*) Strength 0 means that the character canpot move at
all-He lis helpless on the ground.

+ <Dexeerity'0 means that the character cannot move
atall. He stands motionless, rigid, and helpless.

* Constitution 0 means that the character is dead.

 
