Blindsense: Other creatures have blindsense.a lesser ability. that would make him do something he wouldnt normally. do)

thar lets the creature notice things it cannot see, bur.withour the even.foraclose friend. If he succeeds, he decides not to. go)
precision of blindsight. The creature with blindsense usually does along with that order but remains charmed.
not need to make Spot.or Listen checks to notice and locate crea- * A charmed character never obeys a command that is obviously!
tures within range of its blindsense ability, provided that ithas| _|_ suicidal or grievously harmful to her.
line of effect to that creature. Any opponent the creature cannot, _|* If the charming creature commands his minion to do some-
see has total concealment (50% miss chance) against the creature, _,_ thing that the influenced character would be violently opposed
lwith blindsense, and the blindsensing creature still has the to, the subject may.attempt.a new saving throw.to break free of
\normal miss chance when attacking foes that have concealment., the influence altogether.
Visibility still affects the movement of a.creature with blindsense.| _,*_ A charmed character who is openly attacked by the creanure. wha]
A creature with blindsense is still denied its Dexterity bonus to. charmed him or by that creature's apparent allies is automatically.)
Armor Class against attacks from creatures it cannot see. freed of the spell or effect.
Compulsion is a different matter altogether. A compulsion
BREATH WEAPON overrides the subject's free will in some way_or simply,
While dragon fire is the classic example, a breath weapon may also changes the way the subject's mind works. A charm makes the
be a cloud of poisonous gas,a bolt of lightning, or a stream of acid. subject a friend of the caster; a compulsion makes the subject
The creature is actually. expelling something from its mouth obey the caster.
(rather than conjuring it by means of a spell orsome other magical| _,__ Regardless of whether a character is charmed or compelled, he.,
effect), Most creatures with breath weapons are limited to.a| sont volunteer information or tactics that his master doesnit ask.
number of uses per day or by a minimum length of time that must, __for. Ifa ist-level wizard happens to have a staff of fire, the vampire
pass between uses. Such creatures are usually smart enough to, that is compelling him doesn know thar the wand is there and.
save their breath weapon until they really need it. cant tell the wizard to give him the staff or use the staff on his,
* Using a breath wespon is typically a standard action. former friends. The vampire, however, can say, “Hand over your.
+ Noattack roll is necessary. The breath simply fills its stated area. most powerful magic item”
+ Any character caught in the area must make the appropriate
saving throw or suffer the breath weapon's full effect. In many COLD IMMUNITY
cases, a character who succeeds on his saving throw still takes A creature with cold immunity, such as a frost giant, never takes cold |
half damage or some other reduced effect. jdamage. It has vulnerability to fire, which meansit takes halfagainas
+ Breath weapons are supernatural abilities except where noted. much (+50%) damage as normal from fire, regardless of whether a|
*_ Creatures are immune to their own breath weapons. saving throw is allowed, or if the save is a success or failure.
* Creatures unable to breathe can still use breath weapons. (The
term is something of a misnomer.) DAMAGE REDUCTION
es The arrow sticks into.the vampire, bur she just pulls it our and,
CHARM AND COMPULSION laughs as the wound instantly heals, “You'll need to do better than
As the strange, wolflike creature loped toward Tordek, he realized that,” she hisses.
that it was a good friend that meant him no harm. But why was Some magic creatures have the supernatural ability to instantly
Mialee casting a fireball at it? He needed to stop her from doing, heal damage from weapons or to ignore blows altogether as
that again. Later, things got even worse when Lidda didnt know, though they were invulnerable.
that the noble she was chatting up was actually a vampire. After | The numerical part of a creature's damage reduction is the
one look into his eyes, she heard his voice in her mind, givingher| amount of hit points the creature ignores from normal attacks.
orders thar she obeyed without hesitation. She felt like a mere, Thus, a creature with a damage reduction number of 5 struck for 8
observer, trapped behind her own eyes, watching as “she” sought points of damage ignores 5 points and takes only 3.
out her companions and invited them to a private party at the Usually, a certain type of weapon.can.overcome this reduction.
noble’s estate. This information is separated from the damage reduction number
Many abilities and spells can cloud the minds of characters and by a slash. For example, a werewolf's damage reduction is
monsters, leaving them unable to tell friend from foe—or worse 10/silver, meaning the werewolf ignores the first 10 points of
yet, deceiving them into thinking that their former friends are damage from every normal attack unless the weapon is made with
now their worst enemies, Two general types. of enchantments af- _ alchemical silver. Other kinds of damage reduction are overcome
fect characters and creatures: charms and compulsions. by magic weapons (any weapon with a +1 or higher enhancement
Charming another creature gives the charming character the bonus, not. counting the enhancement from masterwork quality),
ability.to befriend and suggest courses of actions to his minion, certain types of weapons (suchas slashing or bludgeoning), and
but the servitude is not absolute or mindless, Charms of this type weapons imbued with an alignment (such as that granted by the
include the various charm spells. Essentially, a charmed character holy. special ability. or the align weapon spell). If a dash follows the
retains free will but. makes choices according to a skewed view of slash (as with the damage reduction that is a class feature of the
the world, aaa barbarian), then the damage reduction is effective against any
+ A charmed creature doesnt gain any magical ability to under. _attack that does not ignore damage reduction.
stand his new friend's language, Ammunition fired from a projectile weapon with an enhance-
+ A charmed character retains his original alignment and alle. ment bonus of +4 or higher is treated as a magic weapon for the |
giances, generally with the exception that he now regards the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. For example,.a.sling|
charming creature as a dear friend and will give great weight to stone hurled from a+1 sling is treated as a magic weapon. Similarly, |
his suggestions and directions, ammunition fired from a projectile weapon with an alignment}
\2_A charmed character fights his formerallies only if they threaten, (such .as.a +1 holy longbow ora. crossbow under the effect of the}

his new friend, and even then he uses the least lethal means at align weapon spell) gains the alignment of that projectile weapon |
his disposal_as long.as these tactics show any_possibiliry of \Gn addition to any alignment it may already have), For example, a
success (just as he would in a fight between two actual friends). \+Lunholy arrow fired from a +2 anarchic shortbow would be both
A charmed character is entitled to an opposed Charisma check \evil-aligned and chaos-aligned (the former from its own unholy
against his master in order to resist instructions or commands, special ability, che latter from the shortbow),

 
