Healt a Disease called ethereal. Unlike incorporeal creatures, ethereal creatures,

Use of the Heal skill can helpa diseased character. Every time a are not present on the Material Plane. }
diseased character makes a saving throw against disease effects, Ethereal creatures are invisible, inaudible, insubstantial, and,
the healer makes a check. The diseased character can use the scentless to creatures on the Material Plane. Even most magical at-|
healer’s result in place of his saving throw if the Heal check result, racks have no effect on them. See invisibility and true seeing reveal
is higher. The diseased character must be in the healer's careand, ethereal creatures.

must have spent the previous 8 hours resting. An ethereal creature can see and hear into the Material Plane in

Characters recover points lost to ability score damage at a rate of, a 60-foot radius, though material objects still block sight and
Lper day per ability damaged, and this rule applies even while adis-, sound. (An ethereal creature cant see through a material wall, for,
ease is in progress. That means thata character with a minordisease, __,instance.) An ethereal creature inside an object on the Material,
might be able to withstand it without accumulating any damage. Plane cannot see. Things on the Material Plane, however, look

gray, indistinct, and ghostly. An ethereal creature canttaffect the

Material Plane, not even magically. An ethereal creature, however,

ENERGY DRAIN AND NEGATIVE LEVELS interacts with other ethereal creatures and objects the way.mate-.
An undead wight bashes.an adventurer, and she feels cold and rial creatures interact with material creatures and objects.
weak, while the wight moves with greater vigor than before. When Even ifa creature on the Material Plane can see an ethereal crea-
the wight strikes her again, she grows weaker, as if her life force ture (for instance, with sce invisibility), the ethereal creature is.on
| were slipping away. Her friends see her face drain of color and her| _lanother plane. Only force effects (such as magic missile) can affect
(flesh shrivel slightly. With the third strike, the adventurer falls.to; _{the. ethereal creatures. If, on the other hand, both creatures are,
the ground, a desiccated husk, A fellow adventurer, also struck by, ethereal, they can affect each other normally.
the wight, survives the encounter. Over the next day his spirit ral-| ‘A force effect originating on the Material Plane extends onto.
lies, and he throws off the hungry force that clawed at his very soul. the Ethereal Plane, so that a.wall of force blocks an ethereal creature,

Some horrible creatures, especially undead monsters, possess and a magic missile can strike one (provided the spellcaster.can see

fearsome supernatural ability to drain levels from those they the ethereal target). Gaze effects and abjurations also extend from
strike in combat, The creature making an energy drain attack the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane. None of these effects
draws a portion of its victims life force from her. extend from the Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane.

Most energy drain attacks require a successful melee attack Ethereal creatures move in any direction (including up.or,
[roll—mere. physical contact is not enough. Monks, for instance, _,down) at will. They-do.not need to walk on the ground, and mate-|

can pound such creatures with their fists without risking their rial objects don't block them (though they can't see while their/
life energy. eyes are within solid material).

Each successful energy drain attack bestows one.or more nega- Ghosts have a power called manifestation that allows them to.
itive levels on the opponent. A creature takes the following penal- appear on the Material Plane as incorporeal creatures. Still, they.|
ities for each negative level it has gained. are on the Ethereal Plane, and another ethereal creature.can inter-,

ton all skill checks and ability checks. act normally with a manifesting ghost.

~1on attack rolls and saving throws. Ethereal creatures pass through and operate in_water.as.casily

-5 hit points, as air.

—Leffective level (whenever the creature's level is used in adie Ethereal creatures do not fall or take falling damage.

toll or calculation, reduce it by.one for each negative level).

If the victim casts spells, she loses access to one spell.as ifshe) EVASION AND IMPROVED EVASION

 

had cast her highest-level, currently available spell. (If she has) These extraordinary abilities allow the target of an area attack to
more than one spell at her highest level, she chooses which she, leap or twist out of the way: Rogues and monks have evasion and
loses.) In addition, when she next prepares spells or regains spell _ improved evasion as class features, but certain other creatures
slots, she gets one less spell slot at her highest spell level. have these abilities, too.

Negative levels remain for 24 hours or until removed with a If subjected to an attack that allows. a Reflex save for half dam-
spell, such as restoration. After 24 hours, the afflicted creature must age, a character with evasion takes no damage on a successful save.
attempt.a Fortitude save (DC 10+.1/2 attacker's HD + attacker's As with a Reflex save for any creature, a character must have
Cha modifier), (The DC is provided in the attacker's description.) room to. move in order to evade. A bound character or one squeez-
If the saving throw succeeds, the negative level goes away with no _ing through.an area (crawling through a 2-1/2-foorwide shaft, for
Tharm to the creature. The afflicted.creature makes a separate _ example) cannot use evasion.
|saving throw for each negative level ir has gained. If the save fails, As with a Reflex save for any creature, evasion is a reflexive abil-
[he negative level goes away; but the creature’ level isalso reduced _ity. The character need not know that the attack is coming to use
by one (see Level Loss, page 296). evasion.

A character with negative levels at least equal to her current Rogues and monks cannot use evasion in medium or heavy
level, or drained below. 1st level, is instantly slain. Depending on armor, Some creatures with the evasion ability as an innate quality
the creature that killed her, she may rise. the next night as a mon- do not have this limitation.
ster of that kind. If not, she rises as a wight. Improved evasion is like evasion, except that even on a failed.

A creature gains 5 temporary hit points for each negative level saving throw the character takes only half damage.
ir bestows (though not if the negative level is. caused ms aspell or
similar effect) 2 FAST HEALING
. — A creature sith fast healing has the extraordinary ability to regain] J

ETHEREALNESS {hit points atan exceptional rate. Except for what is noted here, fast
Our of nowhere, a spider the size of a horse appears.and bites healing is like narural healing (see page 146.of the Player's Hand-|
\Mialee. Lidda wheels ro stab it, but it's. gone. The adventurers , book).
‘know the phase spider is somewhere nearby, lurking on the Ethe- Atthe beginning ofeach ofthe creature's turns, itheals a certain |
real Plane, watching them and waiting. number of hit points (defined in its description).
Phase spiders and certain other creatures can exist on the Ethe-|. _|__Unlike regeneration (page 298), fast healing does not allow a

real Plane (see page 151). While on the Ethereal Plane, a creature is | creature to regrow or reattach lost body parts.

 
