Spectres, wraiths, and a few other creatures lack physical
bodies. Such creatures are insubstantial and cant be.touched by
nonmagical matter or energy. Likewise, they.cannot manipulate
objects or exert physical force on objects. However, incorporeal

beings have a tangible presence that sometimes seems like a phys-\
ical attack (such as the touch of a spectre) against a corporeal crea-,
ture, Incorporeal creatures are present on the same plane as the}

(characters, and characters have some chance to affect them.

Incorporeal creatures can be harmed only by other incorporeal |
creatures, hy magic weapons, or by spells, spell-like effects, or)

supernatural effects. They are immune to all nonmagical attack
forms. They are not burned by_normal fires, affected by natural
cold, or harmed by mundane.acids,

Even when struck by magic or magic weapons, an incorporeal
creature has a 50% chance.to ignore any damage from a corporeal
source—except for a force effect, such as magic missile, or damage
dealt by.a ghost touch weapon.

Incorporeal creatures are immune to critical hits, extra damage}
from being favored enemies, and from sneak attacks. They move,
in any direction (including up or down) at will. They do not need.
to walk on the ground. They can pass through solid objects at will, |

although they cannot see when their eyes are within solid matter.

Incorporeal creatures hiding inside solid objects get a +2 cir-
cumstance bonus on Listen checks, because solid objects carry
sound well. Pinpointing an opponent from inside a solid object
uses the same rules as pinpointing invisible opponents (see Invis-
ibility, below).

Incorporeal creatures are inaudible unless they decide to make
noise.

The physical attacks of incorporeal creatures ignore material
armor, even magic armor, unless it is made of force (such as mage
armor or bracers of armor) or has the ghost touch ability.

Incorporeal creatures pass through and operate in water as
easily as they do in air.

Incorporeal creatures cannot fall or take falling damage.

Corporeal creatures cannot trip or grapple incorporeal crea-
tures,

Incorporeal creatures have no weight and do not set.off traps.

that are triggered by weight.

Incorporeal creatures do not leave footprints, have no scent.
and make no noise unless they manifest, and even then they only,

make noise intentionally.

INVISIBILITY.
An invisible quasit is spying on the adventurers when Lidda gets a
strange feeling. “There's something here,” she whispers, and sig-
nals for silence as she tries to locate it by ear,

The ability to move about unseen is wonderful, but it’s not fool-
|proof. While they can't be. seen, invisible creatures can be heard,
jsmelled, or felt.

Invisibility makes a.creature undetectable by vision, including

darkvision.

Invisibility does not, by itself, make a creature immune to criti-
cal hits, but it does make the creature immune to extra damage
from being a ranger's favored enemy and from sneak attacks.

A creature can generally notice the presence of an active invis-
ible creature within 30 feetwith a. DC 20 Spor check. The observer
gains a hunch that “something's there” but cant see it.or target it
accurately with an attack, A creature who is holding still is very

,hard to notice (DC 30). An inanimate object, an_unliving creature
holding still, ora completely immobile creature is even harder to
spot. (DC 40). Ir's practically impossible (+20 DC) to pinpoint an

linvisible creature's location with a Spot check, and even if a. char-

jacter succeeds on such a check, the invisible creature still benefits
from total concealment (50% miss chance).

‘Accreature.can use hearing to find an invisible creature. Al
character.can make a Listen check for this purpose as a free,

action each round. A Listen check result at least equal to. the.
invisible creature's Move Silently check result reveals its pres-,
ence. (A creature with no ranks in Move Silently makes a Move)
Silently check as. a Dexterity check to which an armor check.
,penalty applies.) A successful check lets a character hearan
_jinvisible crearure “over. there somewhere.” It's practically impos-
ssible to pinpoint the location. of an invisible creature. A Listen
check that beats the DC by 20 pinpoints the invisible creature's
location. +

  

Listen CHeck DCs To Detect InvisiBLe CREATURES

Invisible Creature Is... oc
In combat of speaking oO
Moving at half speed Move Silently check result
Moving at full speed Move Silently check result 4
Running or charging Move Silently check result 20
_ Some distance away +1 per 10 feet
| Behind an obstacle (door) +5

| Behind an obstacle (stone wall) +15

A creature can grope about to find an invisible creature. A charac-
ter can make a touch attack with his hands or a weapon into two.
adjacent $-foot squares using a standard action. If an invisible
target is in.the designated area, there is a SO%.miss.chance.on the
touch attack, If successful, the groping character deals no damage
bur has successfully pinpointed the invisible creature's current
location. (If the invisible creature moves, its location, obviously, is.
‘once again unknown.)

Ifan invisible creature strikes a character, the character struck |
still knows the location of the creature that struck him (until, of
course, the invisible creature moves). The only exceprion is if the.
invisible creature has reach greater than $ feet. In this case,.the,
struck character knows the general location of the creature but,
has not pinpointed the exact location.

If a character tries to attack an invisible creature whose loca-
tion he has pinpointed, he attacks normally, but the invisible
creature still benefits from full concealment(and thus a 50%
miss chance). At your option, a particularly large and slow crea-
ture might get a smaller miss chance. If a wizard projects a disin-
fegrate ray into the center of an invisible Huge black pudding,
you could reduce or ignore the miss chance; it's pretty hard to
miss something that big.

Ifa character tries to attack an invisible creature whose loca-
tion he has not pinpointed, have the player choose the space
where the character will direct the attack, If the invisible crea-
ture is there, conduct the attack normally. If the enemy's not
there, roll the miss chance as if it were there, don't let the player
see the result, and tell him that_the character has missed. That
way the player doesn't know whether the attack missed because
the enemy's not there or because you successfully rolled the miss
chance,

If an invisible character picks up.a visible object, the object
remains visible. One could coat an invisible object with flour to at
least keep track of its position (until the flour fell off or blew
away)_An invisible creature can pick up a small visible item and
hide it on his person (tucked in a pocket or behind a cloak) and
render it effectively invisible,

Invisible creatures leave tracks. They can be tracked normally. |
Footprints in sand, mud, or other soft surfaces can give enemies.
clues to an invisible creature's location.

An invisible creature in the water displaces water. revealing its|
Jocation. The invisible creature, however, is still hard to see and |
benefits from concealment.

A creature with the scent ability (page 298) can derect an invis-
ible creature as it would a visible one.

Acteature with the Blind-Fight feat has a better chance to hit an
invisible creature. Roll the miss chance twice, and he misses only

 
