general, whether spell resistance applies depends on.whar the

spell does:
‘Targeted Spells: Spell resistance applies if the spell is targeted
at the creature. Some individually targeted spells, such as magic

missile when cast by a 3nd-level caster, can be directed at several,
creatures simultaneously. In such cases, acreature’s spell resist-|
ance applies only to.the portion of the spell actually targeted at,

‘that creature. If several different resistant.creatures are subjected,
|to such a spell, each checks its spell resistance separately,

Area Spells: Spell resistance applies if the resistant creature is
within the spell’s area. It protects.the resistant creature without,

affecting the spell itself.

Effect Spells: Most effect spells summon of create something
and are not subject to spell resistance. For instance, summon mon-
ster | summons a_monster that can attack a creature with spell
resistance normally. Sometimes, however, spell resistance applies
ro effect spells, usually to those that act upon a creature more or

less directly, such as web,

Spell resistance can protect a creature from a spell that's already. |
been cast. Check spell resistance when the creature is first affected ,
by the spell. For example, if an ogre mage flies within 10 feet of a,

wall of fire, the caster must make a caster level check against the
ogre mage’ spell resistance of 18. If the caster fails, the wall does
not damage the ogre mage.

Check spell resistance only once for any particular casting of a
spell or use of a spell-like ability. If spell resistance fails the first
time, it fails each time the creature encounters that same casting
\ofthe spell. Likewise, if the spell resistance succeeds the first time,
ix always succeeds, For example, a succubus encounters Jozan's
blade barrier spell. If the cleric makes a successful roll to overcome
the spell resistance of the succubus, the creature takes damage
from the spell. If the succubus survives and enters that particular
blade barrier a second time, the creature will be damaged again. No
second roll is needed. If the creature has voluntarily lowered its
spell resistance and is then subjected toa spell, the creature still
has a single chance to resist that spell later, when its spell resist-
ance is up. =

Spell resistance has no effect unless the energy created or,
released by the spell actually goes to work on the resistant. crea-|
ture’s mind or body, If the spell acts on anything else (the air, the }
ground, the room’ light), and the creature is affected as a conse-,

quence, no roll is required. Creatures can be harmed by a spell
without being directly affected. For example, a daylight spell
harms a dark elf because drow have light blindness. Daylight, how-
ever, usually is cast.on the area containing the drow, making it
bright, not.on the drow itself, so the effect is indirect. Spell resist-
ance would only apply if someone tried to cast daylight on an
object the drow was holding.

Spell resistance does not apply if an effect fools the creature's
senses.or reveals something about the creature, such as minor illu-
sion ar detect thoughts does.

Magic actually has to be working for spell resistance to apply.
Spells that have instantaneous durations but lasting results arent
subject to spell resistance unless the resistant creature is exposed
to the spell che instant it is.cast. For example, a creature with spell
resistance can't undo a wall of stone that has already been cast.

When in doubt about whether a spell’s effect is direct or indi-
rect, consider the spell’s school:

Abjuration: The target creature must be harmed, changed, or
restricted in some manner for spell resistance to apply. Perception
changes, such as nondetection, aren't subject to spell resistance.
|Abjurations thar block or negate. attacks are not subject.to an
jattacker's spell resistance—it is the protected creature that is
Jaffected by the spell (becoming immune or resistant to the attack).

Conjuration: These spells are usually not subject to spell resist-

ance unless the spell conjures some form of energy, such as Melfs acid
arrow.or power word stun, Spells that summon creatures or produce

effects that function like creatures are not subject to spell resistance.

Divination: These spells do not affect creatures directly and |
are not subject to spell resistance, even though what they reveal |
about a creature might be very. damaging.

Enchantment: Since enchantment spells affect creatures’

{minds, they are typically subject to spell resistance.

|. Evocation: If an evocation spell deals damage to the creature, it
has a direct effect. If the spell damages something else, it has an
indirect effect. For example, a lightning bolt cast at a resistant crea-

ature is subject to spell resistance (which would protect only. the,
creature but would not affect the spell itself). If the lightning bolt is
cast at a chamber's ceiling, bringing down a rain of debris, iris not
subject to spell resistance,

Illusion: These spells are almost never subject to spell resist: ,
ance. Illusions.that entail a direct attack, such as phantasmal killer
or shadow evocation, are exceptions.

Necromancy; Most of these spells alter the target creature's life
iforce and are subject to spell resistance. Unusual necromancy.
sspells, such as spectral hand, dont affect other creatures directly and .
Lare not subject to spell resistance.

‘Transmutation: These spells are subject to spell resistance if.
they transform the target creature. Transmutation spells are not,
subject to spell resistance if they.are.targeted.on.a point in space |
instead of on a creature. Transmute mck to mud and entangle change
a creature's surroundings, not the creature itself, and are not subject
to spell resistance. Some transmutations make objects harmful (or
more harmful), such as magic stone. Even these spells are not gener- |
ally subject to spell resistance because they affect the objects, not}
the creatures against which the objects are used, Spell resistance |
works against magic stone only if the creature with spell resistance is,
holding the stones when the cleric casts magic stone on. them. 4

Successful Spell Resistance

Spell resistance prevents a spell or a spell-like ability from. affect:
ing or harming the resistant creature, but it never removes.a mag-
ical effect from another creature or negates a.spell's.effect.on
another creature. Spell resistance prevents a spell from disrupting
another spell.

Against an ongoing spell that has already been cast, a failed
check against spell resistance allows.the resistant creature to
ignore any effect the spell might have. The magic continues to
affect others normally.

TREMORSENSE

A creature with tremorsense automatically senses the location of
anything that is in contact with the ground and within range
(such as.60 feet for the thoqqua).

If no straight path exists through the ground from the creature
to those that it's sensing, then the range defines the maximum dis-
tance of the shortest indirect path. In must itself be in contact with
the ground, and the creatures must be moving.

As long as the other creatures are taking physical actions,
including casting spells with somatic components, they're consid-
ered moving; they don't have to. move from place to place for a
creature with tremorsense to detect them.

TURN RESISTANCE

By virtue of superior strength of will or just plain unholy power.
some creatures (usually undead) are less easily affected by.clerics|
or paladins (see Turn or Rebuke Undead, page 159 of the on
Handbook),
Turn resistance is an extraordinary.abiliry, +
‘When resolving a turn, rebuke, command, or bolster attempt, |
\added the appropriate bonus to the creature's Hit Dice total. For
example, a shadow has +2 turn resistance and 3 HD. Attempts to
jturn, rebuke, command, or bolster it treat the shadow as though it
has 5 HD, though it is 2 3 HD creature for any other purpose.

 
