   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
 

  
   
   
  
  
 

      

This section describes the adverse conditions that. weaken, slow,
or even kill characters If more than.one.condition affects a char-
acter, apply them all. If certain effects can't combine, apply the}
most severe effect. For example, a character. who is dazed and con
fused takes no actions whatsoever (dazed is more severe than con-)
jfused). The confused character might want to attack a random char-|
\acter, but he can't because he's dazed. 4
,—Ability Damaged: The character has temporarily lost1or,
more ability score points, Lost points return at a rate of 1 per day
wunless noted otherwise by the condition dealing the damage. A
character with Strength 0 falls-to the ground and is helpless. A
character with Dexterity is paralyzed. A character with Constitu-
tion 0 is dead. A character with Intelligence, Wisdom, or
Charisma 0 is unconscious, (See Ability Score Loss under Special
Abilities earlier in this chapter.)
» Ability damage is different from penalties to ability scores,
pvhich go away when the conditions causing them (fatigue, entan-)
\glement, and so on) go away.

Ability Drained: The character has permanently lost 1 or more
ability score points. The character can regain these points only
through magical means. A character with Strength 0 falls to the
ground and is helpless. A character with Dexterity 0 is paralyzed.
A character with Constitution 0 is dead. A character with Intelli-
gence, Wisdom, or Charisma 0 is unconscious, (See Ability Score

iLoss under Special Abilities earlier in this chapter.)

|Blinded: The character cannot see. He takes.a—2 penalty to
\Armor Class, loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (ifany), moves at
jhalf speed, and takes a —¢ penalty on Search checks and on most
Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks. All checks and activi-
ities thar rely on vision (such as reading and Spot checks) automat-
ically fail. All opponents are considered to have total. concealment
\($0% miss chance) to the blinded character. =

Characters who remain blinded for a long time grow accus-
tomed to these drawbacks and can overcome some of them (DM's
discretion).

Blown Away: Depending on its size, a creature can be blown,
away by winds of high velocity (see Table 3-24, page 95),_A creature |
‘on the ground that is blownaway is knocked down and rolls 1d4x10)
feet, taking 144 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet. A flying.
creature that is blown away.is blown back 2d6x10 feet and takes 2d6
points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffering.

Checked: Prevented from achieving forward motion by an
applied force, such as wind. Checked creatures onthe ground
merely stop. Checked flying creatures move back a distance speci-
fied in the description of the effect.

_ Confused: A confused character's actions are determined by rolling
1d at the beginning of his turn: 01-10, attack caster with melee or
jranged. weapons (or close with caster if artacking is not possible);
|11-20, act normally; 21-50, do nothing but babble incoherently;
51-70, flee away from caster at top possible speed; 71-100, attack
nearest creature (for this purpose. a familiar counts as part of the
subject's self). A confused character who cantt carry out the indicated
action does nothing but babble incoherently. Attackers are not at
any special advantage when attacking a confused character. Any con-
fused character who is attacked automatically attacks its attackers
on its next turn, as long as it is still confused when its. turn comes. A
confused character does not make attacks of opportunity.against any
creature that it is not already devoted to attacking (either because
,of its most recent action or because it has just been attacked).
|—Cowering: The character is frozen_in fear and can take no
jactions. A cowering character takes.a—2 penalty to Armor Class
Jand loses her Dexterity bonus (if any).
Dazed: The creature is unable to act normally. A dazed creature
can take-no actions, but has no penalty to AC. <ul
Adazed condition typically lasts 1 round,

   

Dazzled: The crearure is unable to see well because of overstimu:,
lation.of the eyes. A dazzled creature takes a—1 penalty on attack rolls, |
Search checks, and Spot checks.

Dead: The character's hit points ate reduced to -10, his Consti-
jtution drops to 0, or he is killed outright by a spell or effect. The
{character's soul leaves his body. Dead characters cannot benefit
,from normal or magical healing, but they can be restored to life via

magic. A dead body decays normally unless magically preserved,
but magic that restores.a dead character to life also restores the
<body either to full health or to its condition at the time of death.
(depending on the spell or device). }

Either way, resurrected characters need not worry about rigor
mortis, decomposition, and other conditions thar affect dead bodies.

Deafened: A deafened character cannot hear. She takes a4,
penalty on initiative checks, automatically fails Listen checks, and;
has a 20% chance of spell failure when casting spells with verbal

,components,

Characters who remain deafened for a long time grow accus-
jtomed to these drawbacks and can overcome some of them (DM's.
sdiscretion),

Disabled: A character with 0 hit points,.or one who has nega-
tive hit points but has become stable and conscious, is disabled. A.
disabled character may. take a single move.action or standard
action each round (bur nor both, nor can.she take full-round
actions), She moves at half speed. Taking move actions doesnt risk
further injury, but performing any standard action (or any other
action the DM deems strenuous, including some free actions such

jas casting a quickened spell) deals 1 point of damage.after the.com-|
pletion of the act. Unless the action increased the disabled charac-|
ter's hit points, she is now in negative hit points and dying.

A disabled character with negative hit points recovers hit points |
naturally if she is being helped. Otherwise, each day she has a. 10%,
chance to start recovering hit points naturally (starting with that.
day); otherwise, she loses 1 hit point. Once an unaided character
starts recovering hit points naturally, she is no longer in danger of
losing hit points (even if her current hit points are negative).

Dying: A dying character is unconscious and near death, She
has —1 to -9 current hit points. A dying character can take no
actions and is unconscious. At-the end of each round (starting
with the round in which the character dropped below 0 hit
points), the character rolls d% to see whether she becomes
stable. She has a 10%.chance to become stable. If she does not,
she loses 1 hit point. Ifa dying character reaches -10 hit points,
she is dead.

Energy Drained: The character gains one or more negative
levels, which might permanently drain the character's levels,

Ifthe subject has at least as many negative levels as Hit Dice, he
dies. Each negative level gives a.creature the following penalties:
~1 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, ability
checks; loss of 5 hit points; and —1 to effective level (for determin-
ing the power, duration, DC, and other details of spells or special
abilities), In addition, a spellcaster loses one spell or spell slot from
the highest spell level castable.

Entangled: The character is ensnared. Being entangled impedes
movement, but does not entirely prevent it unless the bonds are
anchored to an immobile object or tethered by an opposing force.
An entangled creature moves at half speed, cannot run or charge,
and takes a—2 penalty on all attack rolls and a + penalty to Dexter-
ity. An entangled character.who attempts to cast a spell must make a,
Concentration check (DC 15 + the spell’s level) or lose the spell.

Exhausted: An exhausted character moves at half speed and}
takes a6 penalty to Strength and Dexterity, After 1 hour of com-)
plete rest, an exhausted character becomes fatigued. A farigued |

icharacter becomes exhausted by doing something else that would
jnormally cause fatigue.

Fascinated; A fascinated creature is entranced by a supernatu-
ral or spell effect. The creature stands or sits quietly, taking no

 
 
