case the blinded character knows the location of the unseen oppo- ;

nent, but has not pinpointed him) or uses.a.ranged attack (in
which case, the blinded character knows the general direction of
the foe, but not his location).

—A creature with the scent ability automatically pinpoints,

unseen creatures within 5 feet of its location.

FALLING

One of the most common hazards to adventurers is a fall from

some great height.
Falling Damage: The basic rule is simple: 1d6 points of
damage per 10 feet fallen, to a maximum of 20d6.
| Ifa character deliberately jumps instead of merely slipping or
falling, the damage is the sume but the first 16 is nonlethal dam-
age. A DC 15 Jump.check or DC 15 Tumble check allows the char-
acter toavoid any damage from the first 10 feet fallen and converts
any damage from the second 10 feet to nonlethal damage. Thus, a

[character who slips from a ledge 30 feet up takes 346 damage. If
ithe same character deliberately jumped, he takes 1d6 points of |
nonlethal damage and 2dé points of lethal damage. And if the,
character leaps down with a successful Jump or Tumble check, he |

takes only 1d6 points of nonlethal damage and 1dé points of lethal
damage from the plunge.

Falls onto yielding surfaces (soft ground, mud) also convert the
first 1d6 of damage to nonlethal damage. This reduction is cumu-
mee with reduced damage due to deliberate jumps and the Jump
skill
falling into Water: Falls into water are handled somewhat
differently, If the water is at least 10 feet deep, the first 20 feet of
falling do no damage. The next 20 feet do nonlethal damage (1d3.
per 10-foot increment). Beyond thar, falling damage is lethal
damage (1d6 per additional 10-foot increment).

Characters who deliberately dive into water take no.damage on
la successful DC 15 Swim check or DC 15 Tumble check, so long as
the water is at least 10 feet deep for every 30 feet fallen. However,
the DC of the check increases by 5 for every 50 feet of the dive.

FALLING OBJECTS

Just as characters take damage when they fall more than 10 feet, so.
too do they take damage when they are hit by falling objects. |

Objects that fall upon characters deal damage based on their,

weight and the distance they have fallen.

TaBLe 8-4; DAMAGE FROM FALLING OsjecTs

Object Weight Falling Distance
200-101 Ib. 20 ft,
100-51 Ib. 30 ft.
50-31 Ib, 40. ft.
30-11 Ib. 50 ft
10-6 Ib. 60 ft.
5-1 Ib. 70 ft.

For each 200 pounds of an object's weight, the object deals 1dé
points of damage, provided it falls at least 10 feet. Distance also
comes into play, adding an additional 1d6 points of damage for
every 10-foot increment it falls beyond the first (to a maximum of
20d6 points of damage).

Objects smaller than 200. pounds also deal damage when
dropped, but they must fall farther to deal the same damage. Use

0
VARIANT: LESS LETHAL FALLS
Generous OMs who fee! that falling is too lethal can make the first 16
of falling damage always nonlethal damage, no matter what the
circumstances.

 

HEAT DANGERS

(The hot desert sun can be as deadly an enemy as a hostile tribe of

Catching on Fire
| Characters exposed to burning oil, bonfires, and. noninstanta-|

Table 8—4: Damage from Falling Objects to see how far an objectof,
agiven eight must drop to deal 1dé6 points of damage.

Example: A.magic flying ship tilts to one side and drops.a 400-|
pound stone statue (a petrified comrade) overboard. The statue;

{deals 2d6 points of damage to anything it strikes by virtue of its
iweight alone, If the ship were 100 feet in the air ar the time, the

falling statue would deal an additional 9d¢ points of damage, for a
total of 11d6. by
For each additional increment an object falls, it deals an addi,

tional 1d6 points of damage. For example, since. 30-pound metal,

sphere must fall 50 feet to deal damage (1dé6 points of damage),
such a sphere that fell 150 feet would deal 346 points of damage.
Objects weighing less than 1 pound do not deal damage to those
they land upon, no matter how far they have fallen. +

sores. Prolonged exposure to hot temperatures can quickly wear,
jdown a character, and heatstroke can be deadly,

Heat deals nonlethal damage that cannot be recovered until the |
character gets cooled off (reaches shade, survives until nightfall,
gets doused in water, is targeted by endure clements, and so forth),
Once rendered unconscious through the accumulation of non-
lethal damage, the character begins to take lethal damage at the
same mate,

A character in very hot conditions (above 90° F). must make.
Fortitude saving throw each hour (DC 15,+4 for each previous,
check) or take 1d¢ points of nonlethal damage. Characters wear-|
ing heavy clothing or armor of any sort take a—+¢ penalty on their.
saves, A character with the Survival skill may receive a bonus.on.
this saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other
characters as well (see the skill description, page 83 of the Player’,
Handbook). Characters reduced to unconsciousness begin taking |
lethal damage (1d¢ points per hour).

In severe heat (above 110° F), a character must make.a Fortitude
save once every 10 minutes (DC 15, +1 for each previous check) or
take 1d¢ points of nonlethal damage. Characters wearing heavy
clothing or armor of any sort take a —+ penalty on their saves. A
character with the Survival skill may receive a bonus on this
saving throw and may be able so apply this bonus to other charac-
ters as well. Characters reduced to unconsciousness begin taking
lethal damage (1d¢ points per.each 10-minute period).

A character who takes any nonlethal damage from heat expo-
sure now suffers from heatstroke and is fatigued (see page 301),
These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal
damage she took from the heat.

Extreme heat (air temperature over 140" F, fire, boiling water,
lava) deals lethal damage. Breathing air in these temperatures
deals 1d6 points of damage per minute (no save). In addition, a
character must make a Fortitude save every $ minutes (DC 15, +1
per previous check) or take 14 points of nonlethal damage.
Those wearing heavy clothing or any sort of armor take a —4
penalty.on their saves, In addition, those wearing metal armor or
coming into.contact with very hot metal are affected as if by a
heat metal spell.

Boiling water deals 1d6 points of scalding damage, unless the
character is fully immersed, in which case it deals 10d6 points of |
damage per round of exposure.

neous magic fires such as.a wall of fire might find their clothes,)

hair, orequipmenton fire. Spells such as fireball.or flame strike don't

normally seta character on fire, since the heat and flame from

{these come and go in a flash.

Characters at_risk of catching fire are allowed a DC 15 Reflex
save to avoid this fate. If a character's clothes or hair catch fire, he

 
