A Call
to Arms
Introduction
The citizens of Phent, which is a large town in Thesk, are a proud, yet
warm and accepting folk. For the past nine years, they have been host
to over six hundred orcs, which is certainly an anomaly in the average
Faerûnian community. In 1360 DR, Zhentil Keep sent one thousand
orcs to aid in the fight against the westward-sweeping Tuigan hordes.
The orcs fought well—well enough that the citizens of Thesk welcomed
them as citizens when Zhentil Keep abandoned them in this land in 1363
DR. Still, a current of unsettling concern lingers. Some believe that the orcs
are still part of Zhentil Keep’s strike force, but that they went on standby
to wait for the moment when their masters give the signal. Once allowed,
these orcs may launch a crippling attack from within.
However, in nine years, no signal has been given—at least none
that any of the paranoid folk have noticed. The orcs are enthusias-
tic citizens and, apart from some rowdiness during breaks from the
mines or fields, they have hurt no one.
And then, a prophet comes, with a message of war . . .
In A Call to Arms,the player characters (PCs) have a chance to
prevent orcs from rising up against some humans. This adventure is
designed for four 9th-level D&D
® characters. The encounters can be
adjusted up or down to suit your group’s needs, however.
Preparation
You, the Dungeon Master (DM), need a copy of the Player’s Hand-
book,the DUNGEONMASTER’s Guide,and the Monster Manualto
use this material. You may also want to have a copy of Unapproach-
able Eastand Magic of Faerûnhandy. Boxed text that appears
throughout this adventure is player information, which you can read
aloud or paraphrase when appropriate. Monster and NPC statistics
are provided with each encounter in abbreviated form or, where
appropriate, the Monster Manualis referenced.
SCALING THE A DVENTURE
If you need to scale the adventure up or down for your PCs, you may
find these guidelines helpful.
An Unapproachable EastF ORGOTTEN REALMS ® Web Enhancement
1
Design: John Terra
Advice : Skip Williams
Editing: Miranda Horner
Cartography: Dennis Kauth, Rob Lazzaretti
Typesetting: Nancy Walker
Web Production: Julia Martin
Web Development: Mark A. Jindra
Graphic Design: Robert Campell, Cynthia Fliege, Dee Barnett
Based on the original DUNGEONS & D RAGONS ® game by E. Gary
Gygax and Dave Arneson and on the new edition of the
D
UNGEONS & D RAGONS game designed by Jonathan Tweet, Monte
Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison.
D&D, D UNGEONS & D RAGONS , F ORGOTTEN REALMS , and
D UNGEON M ASTER are registered trademarks owned by Wizards
of the Coast, Inc. The RPGA and d20 logo are trademarks owned
by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All Wizards characters, character
names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks
owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. This material is protected
under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any
reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork
contained herein is prohibited without the express written
permission of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. This product is a work of
fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or
events is purely coincidental. This Wizards of the Coast game
product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work
may be reproduced in any form without written permission. To
learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d20 System
License, please visit www.wizards.com/d20.
©2003 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in
the U.S.A.
Visit our website at www.wizards.com/forgottenrealms
Additional Credits