5–7th-Level PCs: Cut the giants and ettins by a fourth, rounding
down. Drop the Zhent fighters to 6th level, and make Thule less
willing to engage in combat—he can be more of a “till we meet
again” sort.
11–14th-Level PCs: Increase the number of giants, ettins, and
undead by a fourth, rounding up. Add two more Zhent fighters.
15th-Level +: Double the numbers of all monsters that don’t have
class levels, and add 2 levels to all NPCs that have character
classes. 
AdventureBackground
Despite what some may think, those in Zhentil Keep haven’t for-
gotten about their orc troops in Phent. In public discussion in Zhen-
til Keep, the leaders of the Zhentilar, the military branch of Zhentil
Keep, have confidently asserted that the orcs in Thesk are com-
pletely loyal to Zhentil Keep. They maintain that the orcs are just
biding their time and building up trust among the citizens, until the
appointed time when the word is given.
In private, these same leaders are gravely concerned. The leaders
didn’t get to positions of command by being idiots, and they know
that the orcs are treated well and accepted in Thesk, which is a rarity
for them with the humans and humanoids of Faerûn in general. The
leaders know that many of the orcs would be reluctant to destroy
the source of this acceptance.
But what if the orcs’ chief god, Gruumsh, told them to?
The Zhentilar turned to the Black Network and presented the
problem. The Zhents knew what to do. The Zhents have dispatched
a powerful cleric, a master of persuasion and deception, to pose as an
orc prophet of Gruumsh and whip the orcs into a destructive frenzy.
In addition, the Zhentilar have staged raids against human caravans
by what look like orc warriors so that they can start antiorc senti-
ment among the population of Thesk.
AdventureSummary
The main portion of this adventure is the investigation of the mys-
terious orc prophet, who is located in the eastern foothills of the
Thesk Mountains about 20 miles due east of Phent. The party needs
to do some snooping around Phent to collect some information, and
they must help prevent a bit of misplaced mob justice by stopping
the self-styled prophet of Gruumsh before the less acclimated orcs
decide to follow his words.
Character Hooks
While the heroes can get involved in this adventure in several ways,
the best way includes an encounter that occurs about ten miles
northeast of Phent, along the Golden Way. Here are some hooks to
get the adventurers into this region:
• A new Thayan enclave could possibly open up in Phent. Not only
do certain individuals want it checked out to make sure that every-
thing’s aboveboard, some say that the proprietor plans to have an
“opening-day sale” with some fantastic bargains.
• Reports of increased bandit raids on the Golden Way between
Phent and Pshant have prompted various councils to send adven-
turers out along that route to investigate. Ideally, these groups
will find traces of the bandits, track them back to their lair, and
eliminate the problem.
• A merchant and his son hire the group to escort the pair from
Telflamm to Tammar. If this hook is used, bear in mind that the
group needs to come up with some way to be released from their
obligation so that they can address the serious matter at hand.
Encounters
The following encounters begin in a somewhat linear progression,
but once the heroes become engaged in the adventure, they should
have some options about which course to follow. In the end, they
should discover the prophet, but if they don’t, some consequences
follow that DMs may want to use in their campaigns.
The Raid (EL 10)
The heroes encounter a brutal attack on a caravan about ten miles
northeast of Phent. While the attack looks as if it is conducted by
the local orc population, the perpetrators are in fact a squad of elite
Zhent half-orc warriors who have been subtly “touched up” to
resemble full-blooded orcs.
Once the PCs get within 700 feet of the plume, they can make Spot
checks (DC 13) to see the attacking Zhents and their foes. The
Zhents and their foes Spot the approaching PCs at the same distance
if they make Spot checks of their own (DC 20). If the PCs try to
approach with stealth, the Spot DC to see them coming is 25 + the
worst Hide skill modifier in the group; however, the PCs also
receives a –2 penalty to their own Spot checks. Any group that fails
the Spot check automatically sees their foes when they get within
350 feet.
Since the “orcs” and their victims are rather busy with the work at
hand, both of these groups receive a –5 penalty on any Listen checks
they might make to notice the PCs. Read the following aloud, adjust-
ing as necessary, when the PCs successfully see the combat ahead:
Anyone who can understand Orc, will make out the phrases “No
more peace!” and “All humans must die!”
The “orcs” are disguised half-orcs. If the PCs get a good look at
them (as they might if they attack them or try to parley with
them), they can make Spot checks (DC 25) to note the disguise.
Creatures: The “orc” fighters are mounted on horses, and they use
the horses to their advantage in combat.
D“Orcs” (8): Male and female Half-Orc Fighter 4: CR 4;
Medium-size humanoid (half-orc); HD 4d10+12; hp 34; Init +2; Spd
A caravan of four wagons is halted on the road, and one of them
is in flames. The drivers and the well-dressed merchants have run
from the wagons, desperately trying to get out of harm’s way. A
group of six warriors, possibly hired guards, are busily engaging a
force of ten orcs mounted on horseback. The orcs move and fight
with the practiced air of experienced warriors.
The Golden Way, famed trade route, is a well-maintained road
that is usually a pleasure to travel upon. As you move along,
though, you see the beginnings of a plume of smoke rising at a
point around a small bend in the Way. The plume drifts up to the
heavily overcast sky. The scent of burning wood and grass reaches
you, as well.
You can also hear faint sounds of the clashing of steel, the
frightened whinnies of horses, the mingled din of guttural war
cries, and the shouts and screams of panicked victims coming
from that general direction.
Unapproachable EastWeb Enhancement
2