Unapproachable EastWeb Enhancement
3
20 ft.; AC 16, touch 12, flat-footed 14; Atk +9 melee (1d6+7/18–20,
+1 scimitar); SQ darkvision 60 ft.; AL LE; SV Fort +7, Ref +3, Will
+2; Str 18, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8.  
Skills and Feats:Climb +4, Intimidate +1, Ride (horse) +7, Spot
+2; Cleave, Dodge, Mounted Combat, Power Attack, Ride-By Attack.
Possessions:Masterwork scale mail, +1 scimitar, 6 javelins, potion
of cure light wounds (3), potion of cure moderate wounds, 50 gp in
pouch, light warhorse.
D Light Warhorse: CR 1; Large animal; HD 3d8+9; hp 22; Init
+1; Spd 60 ft.; AC 14, touch 10, flat-footed 13; Atk +4 melee (1d4+3,
2 hooves) and –1 melee (1d3+1, bite); Face/Reach 5 ft. by 10 ft./5
ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent; AL N; SV Fort +6, Ref +4, Will +2;
Str 16, Dex 13, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 6.  
Skills and Feats:Hide –3, Listen +7, Spot +7.
Scent (Ex): A light warhorse can detect approaching enemies,
sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
DCaravan Guards (6): War 3; hp 18; see D
UNGEONMASTER’s
Guide.
Tactics: The orcs focus on eliminating the caravan guards first,
unless they see evidence that the party is quite proficient; spell-
throwing characters are noticed particularly. If the orc group loses
half its number, the remaining members make a retreat into the
hills, but they do notgo back to the prophet. Rather, they attempt
to go deeper into the mountains in hopes of shaking off pursuit.
Development: The merchant is named Boren (NG male human
Exp5), and his son is Baderan (NG male human Exp2), and they had
set out from Phent with intentions to reach Tammar. Should the
party rescue them, they are most effusive in their gratitude and prom-
ise the group some excellent bargains the next time they are in Phent.
If all the caravan guards are dead, Boren asks the heroes to escort
him and his son to Tammar, and he offers 3 gp per day of travel
(plus food and drink) to each adventurer in exchange for guardian
services rendered. Should the group do this, roll normal chances of
encounters during the trip.
In any event, Boren gives the party one very crucial piece of
information: Rumors abound of the orc population in Phent getting
restless, and some orcs are always at the Resthaven Inn, in Phent,
arguing orc politics and such. Boren believes that the restlessness is
causing the orcs in Phent to resort to banditry such as they have
seen, though if confronted by the fact that the orcs are actually
half-orcs, he gets puzzled and wonders aloud if a plot is afoot to rile
up the folk in Phent so that they get angry at the orcs there.
If the PCs decide to head for Phent to discover more about these
rumors, they have to cover ten miles of the Golden Way to hit the
Resthaven Inn, which is one of the larger inns right off the Golden
Way in Phent. DMs can roll for random encounters as the PCs cover
the terrain to Phent.
At the Resthaven Inn
The Resthaven Inn is one of the larger inns that the PCs see when coming
into town via the Golden Way. The group can get some idea about what’s
going on in Phent. This is an excellent place to pick up rumors.
The Resthaven has nice rooms for 2 gp per night, though some
lesser facilities are available for 5 sp per evening. The place is run
by Golvas Winterhaven (NG male human War5/Exp2), a huge man
with a laughing manner about him.
A few hours of drinks and chatting with the locals earns each PC
doing so a chance to make a Gather Information check. The follow-
ing table presents some information and the DCs for the Gather
Information check to discover that information. In each case, suc-
cess at beating a DC usually grants that DC’s information and all
the information provided by succeeding at any lower DC. DMs
might award slightly more information than what is provided
depending on how much a player’s roll exceeds a given DC. If a bard
is in the group and performing for the patrons successfully (as in
having an “enjoyable” or better performance as listed under the Per-
form skill in the Player’s Handbook), decrease the DC listed below
by –5. Additionally, each bit of information notes whether it is true
or not beside it. 
G ATHER INFORMATION
DC Information
5 Bandit raids on the road have been on the rise (true).
10 A new Thayan enclave may be opening in town soon (true).
Agents of Cyric have been spotted lurking about town (false).
The bandit raids consist primarily of orcs these days, it seems
(true).
15 Recently, orcs have been heading off to the nearby hills for
some odd nightly meetings (true). The more established bandit
gangs are getting upset over the fact that orcs are taking their
plunder (true).
20 An actual temple of Mask is due to be constructed here soon, so
strong is the power of the Shadowmasters that it now can be
done out in the open (false). One bandit gang in particular, the
Tarnished Blades, is watching the town closely and trying to use
the information they gain by doing so to get a jump on caravans
before the orc bandits do (true). Some say that the bandit orcs
aren’t local orcs (true).
25 Some believe that the Tarnished Blades are one step away from
seeking out and confronting the orc bandit leader (true).
The orc looking at the party is Sergeant Kraansh, leader of the town
watch. If the PCs show a strong interest in getting to the bottom of
the bandit raids, he eventually approaches the PCs and asks their
business—all politely done, of course. If asked about orc raids, he
frowns and appears concerned. The sergeant does his best to keep the
orcs from getting too rowdy, and, in fact, he has a dilemma.
According to the good sergeant, meetings take place almost
nightly in the hills just outside of town. Local orcs attend these
meetings, and some say that a prophet has come from the wilds—a
prophet of Gruumsh, talking “crazy talk.” Kraansh himself refuses
to go. But if the party is interested in what’s going on up there, and
if it has some bearing on the raids, then Kraansh can tell the group
where the meetings are. He does advise, though, that the party be
somehow disguised or invisible. (If the party has no way to remain
hidden or invisible, he can make some potions available, but they’ll
need to be used wisely, and he’ll barter for them—they certainly
aren’t free, but possibly discounted if used for the meeting.)
Kraansh tells the interested heroes that the meetings are usually
held an hour after midnight in a small ravine in the foothills to the
southeast, which is about an hour’s walk or half-hour’s ride. He
advises them to be careful and not to repeat any of it to anyone. If
the PCs decide to head out to see this meeting, the encounter called
A Nightly Meeting covers the events of this meeting.
DD Sergeant Kraansh: Male orc Fighter 9; CR 9; Medium-size
humanoid; HD 9d10+45; hp 94; Init +6; Spd 30 ft.; AC 18, touch
12, flat-footed 16; Atk +16/+11 melee (1d8+9, +2 morningstar);
SQ darkvision 60 ft., light sensitivity; AL N; SV Fort +11, Ref +5,
Will +5; Str 20, Dex 14, Con 20, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 17. Height
5 ft. 10 in.
The inn is a two-story stone building with a stable out back, an
interior common room with a bar, and stairs leading up to rooms.
The innkeeper and his staff bustle about serving patrons. The
place is full of people, and most give you only a passing glance.
At one table, a particularly tough orc watches you with an
appraising eye.