Unapproachable EastWeb Enhancement
business. Use the statistics below, but be ready to have the sergeant
and his own troops come bust up the battle by the third round of
combat (unless this takes place outside town). This gives the DM
another opportunity to introduce the sergeant and send the PCs to
the section called The Nightly Meeting.
DD Orc Fighters (4): Male and female orc Fighter 7; CR 7;
Medium-size humanoid; HD 7d10+21; hp 59; Init +2; Spd 20 ft.; AC
18, touch 12, flat-footed 16; Atk +12/+7 melee (1d6+5/18–20, +1
scimitar); or +9/+4 ranged (1d6+3, javelin); AL LE; SV Fort +8, Ref
+4, Will +3; Str 16, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10.  
Skills and Feats:Climb +5, Intimidate +3, Listen +3, Ride (horse)
+7, Spot +5; Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Great
Cleave, Power Attack , Weapon Focus (scimitar).
The Temple of Mask: As with the bandits, interest shown by
the PCs in anything dealing with Mask is soon rewarded by a con-
frontation with a few followers of Mask—but only if the PCs per-
sist in following up on this lead after the first evening in town. If
the PCs make a successful Gather Information check (DC 20)
that first evening, they do find out that the Mask temple was a
rumor started by Fiskus Evanson (CN male half-orc War3), who
was actually quite drunk one evening. (He was proposing that the
bandit problems were actually the work of Mask’s followers and
that he wouldn’t be surprised if a temple was forming up some-
where nearby. Others misheard and took that as word that this
was actually happening.) Should the PCs fail at the Gather Infor-
mation check with regards to following up on the Mask temple,
they don’t learn of this information. Further investigation is up
to them and may lead to some interesting problems later (DM’s
option).
Cyric Followers in Phent: Again, if the PCs spend time outside
the inn doing some follow-up research on the rumor about Cyric
followers, they can learn (Gather Information DC 20) that the
rumor they had heard is completely false. This time the rumor
comes from the speculation of a local merchant’s daughter, whose
father had just been assassinated. While some believe an
unscrupulous merchant from another town set up the assassina-
tion, the daughter Lesta Fording (CG female human Exp3) is cer-
tain that a follower of Cyric set up the assassination since she
knows that her father and the so-called opposing merchant were
about to come to an agreement on something. If the PCs follow
up on this lead, they can talk to the daughter and find out that
the agreement included her marrying the son of the “enemy”
merchant, and that this union would bring together these two
families in a manner that would allow for further mercantile
expansion. She believes that she saw someone wearing purple and
silver leaving her father’s rooms just before he was discovered
dead by poison. She also thinks she had a glimpse of a skull-and-
sunburst symbol. If pressed, though, she’ll reveal that she isn’t so
sure about the symbol. DMs can allow PCs to further investigate
this death, though this investigation goes beyond the scope of this
current adventure. Suggestions for the killer include having it be
the son of the enemy merchant (who loves another despite what
he has told Lesta and his father), the “enemy” merchant (who
decided that he’d rather absorb Lesta’s father’s trade completely
instead of sharing it with the Fording family, who is a fairly
recent arrival to the area), or perhaps even a current foe from
among the enemies that the PCs have already made who would
have reason to disrupt a fortuitous trade alliance. Should the PCs
fail at their Gather Information rolls, they may well end up
spending some wasted time trying to track down nonexistent fol-
lowers of Cyric. (Of course, another option is to have this rumor
be true and integrate this adventure into an existing Cyric-based
plot in your campaign.)
The Nightly Meeting
The nightly meeting is the meeting where the prophet comes down
from the hills and talks to the gathered assembly of orcs. Should the
PCs make their way to the meeting, read the following aloud, adjust-
ing as necessary:
If one of the PCs has the ability to understand Orc, this is what he
or she hears (adjust as necessary for PC actions):
Eventually, the assembly starts to leave the area, most of them in
small groups, talking about what they saw. About a half-hour after
the priest fades away, the area is silent and empty.
If the PCs didn’t make good use of their invisibility and hiding
options, it’s possible that they will have to deal with a nasty situa-
tion in terms of orcs. First of all, none of the orcs care for the fact
that the PCs are sneaking around spying on them, but enough orcs
are around who don’t want to see this break into a fight that they
can all calm each other down somewhat. Since there are so many
orcs, it makes no sense for the PCs to attempt to face them all down,
and it would become rather hard on the DM to run that many.
(Remember, hundreds of monsters does not equate to a good fight
for four PCs.) As an added situational modifier, several of the orcs
who weren’t so impressed with the priest also may have seen the PCs
talk to the sergeant back in town, so they could easily become
spokespeople for the PCs and help the situation evolve into one of
the following outcomes. DMs should use the NPC Attitudes section
in the D
UNGEONMASTER’s Guideto help adjudicate the situation;
orcs range from hostile to unfriendly initially:
• PCs are escorted back to the sergeant and left in his custody, with
a slew of complaints about their presence at the meeting.
• The PCs must fulfill some task for some of the orcs to appease
them and help calm down the angrier ones. This task could
include working the jobs of some of the orcs present for a couple
of days and would invariably involve mining iron.
“Orcs! Again I come to you, as I have every night for the past
tenday, to stir your blood! For years now, you have settled down
and lived side-by-side with humans. Instead of lifting the sword of
war, you lift an axe . . . a plow! Instruments of the weak!
Have you forgotten who you are? Have you forgotten what
you are? Our god calls us to battle—to be orcs—and you sit in
human taverns and drink ale, instead of drinking their blood?
Listen to your instincts. Heed the pounding savage blood in your
veins. Rise up, lift off this mantle of false human civilization,
embrace your orc heritage, and go forward! Forward, in the name
of Gruumsh!”
Some of the orcs stand and cheer; most just sit and ponder, and
a few shake their heads and scoff at the priest’s words. The priest
simply stares at the orcs, drops something on the ground, then,
gradually, his body fades away.
Picking your way carefully along the barely discernible trail, you
eventually come to a ravine. Arrayed in a sort of amphitheater-
like setting are lots of orcs. At least three hundred of them are all
focusing on one spot. They are eerily, unsettlingly silent. Standing
at the spot they are all staring at is a huge orc who is clad in the
priestly vestments of a servant of Gruumsh, including an eye-
patch to cover the orb he gouged out as service to his god. As the
crowd watches, the cleric speaks, and his voice rings through the
ravine.
5