If the PCs have time to investigate the site of the meeting, they can
find the following information: 
• A Wilderness Lore check (DC 12) reveals that there was indeed
someone where the priest stood; it wasn’t an image or an illusion.
The thing the priest dropped was a holy symbol of Gruumsh, and
apparently the orcs didn’t pick it up.
• A Wilderness Lore check (DC 15) around an area about 60 feet
from the priest’s location in a direction that none of the other
orcs went reveals tracks that head out in the direction of the hills.
• Any spellcaster who makes a Spellcraft check (DC 20) can hazard
a guess that the vanishing was in fact a gaseous formeffect.
If the PCs wish, they can attempt to follow the tracks. If they don’t
pick up this information, they may need to come to another meet-
ing and try again. (Go to Hot on the Trail if the PCs find the tracks
leading away.) If the PCs find these tracks later, adjust the DC of the
Wilderness Lore checks appropriately (see Track in Chapter 5 of the
Player’s Handbook).
Hot on the Trail
The tracks head due east through the hills and place the PCs in a
direct line of sight with the Thesk Mountains. The trail requires 5
hours of travel, with an hourly Wilderness Lore check (DC 15).
Each of the first 3 hours has a different problem, as shown below:
Hour One: Two Heads Are Better Than One (EL 10) (H4)
The orc priest, knowing that he may be followed, has set up some
guards. These guards consist of beings he has bullied or persuaded to
aid him in his cause. The first is a group of ettins. Read the follow-
ing, adjusting for time of day as necessary:
About 30 minutes away from the site of the meeting, six ettins lurk.
They have attempted to hide themselves in their cave off the path,
which is about 40 feet ahead and to the right of the PCs. The cave
has an uninterrupted line of sight to the path (putting the encounter
distance at 40 feet). However, the conditions of the night allow the
ettins a chance to hear the PCs before they come within line of sight,
so the ettins should make an opposed Listen check before the PCs
approach the initial encounter distance. After that, use the rules as
presented in the D
UNGEONMASTER’s Guidefor determining how
the encounter runs. The night is starlit with no moon, and the ettins
tend to remain still until they hear the PCs (if they hear them). (If
the PCs don’t start tracking the priest immediately after the cere-
mony, adjust the visual conditions as necessary. There is also a 10%
chance that one of the ettins is out and about near the path instead
of in its cave.)
The ettins were swayed to the point of fanaticism by the cleric,
and they guard the pass with their lives. The large cave serves as
their resting point, and the bones of many orcs litter the cave’s
floor. These are the remains of curious orcs who sought to follow the
cleric back to his starting point.
DDEttins (6):hp 70; see Monster Manual.
Tactics: The ettins are quite emphatic in their tactic about not
allowing anyone to get away, and they especially do not want
anyone following their cleric friend. As a result, they fight to the
death.
Treasure: The cleric doesn’t permit the ettins to keep much. Any-
thing truly valuable goes to the priest and his cause. However, under
a rock in the cave lies 1,000 gp, a token of the cleric’s esteem. Also,
an exceptional greataxe hangs on the wall. The weapon is, in fact, a
+1 elfbane greataxe.
H OUR T WO : BIGGER P ROBLEMS (EL 9)
As the tracks continue eastward, the terrain gets rockier and the
footing becomes more difficult. The second set of guards, a small
group of hill giants, is determined to succeed where the first group
failed. Again, the giants have an advantage in terms of knowing
when the PCs are coming if the PCs started after the priest right
after the ceremony. They not only have the higher ground (and a
better line of sight), but they are listening for the nightly followers.
(They’ve had much fun with orcs over the past several evenings.)
Read the following aloud, adjusting as necessary for vision concerns,
and so on:
If the PCs come at another time, the giants are most likely slum-
bering in their own dwelling, which is another cave set back from
the cliff that they usually set up ambushes upon. Sometimes one
comes out to go hunting (10% chance of this happening when the
PCs near the area in their second hour of tracking). They do, how-
ever, keep one person on watch at all times.
Aside from climbing or magical means, there is no easy way to get
up the cliff. If the characters reversed direction, they’d find a small
path 5 minutes away that eventually winds its way to the cliff over-
looking the path. They can stumble upon it by accident as they
wander, or a Wilderness Lore check (DC 15) allows the PC to see the
path before they pass it. Anyone attempting to climb the cliff must
make a Climb check (DC 12); the surface is fairly good for climbing.
A cave on top of the cliff is filled with boulders and also serves as
the shelter for the giants. Atop one rock shelf 20 feet high is a large
sack with 600 gp, which is the cleric’s pay for the giants’ loyalty.
There aren’t any orc remains here, but PCs can find some further
behind the cave if they care to look (Search check DC 15).
D Hill Giants (4): hp 90; see Monster Manual.
Tactics: The giants happily toss boulders down at the characters,
hopefully knocking any off the cliff who dare to attempt to climb
up. Eventually, if they think they have the advantage, or if the
heroes are running off, the giants use their Jump skill to leap off the
cliff, land down below, and chase down the victims, engaging them
in melee.
H OUR T HREE : THE T RUE COLORS
COME F ORTH (EL 11)
The third obstacle should tip adventurers off as to what the true
nature of the threat is. Read the following aloud, adjusting as
necessary:
The cleric has placed a mixture of banedead and baneguards as
guards behind numerous rocks and talus piles. The cleric’s own tem-
porary base is about 2 hours ahead. (If the PCs are fresh and of a
higher level than 9th, you may want to place these undead 200 yards
Still eastward you march, and the mountains loom closer and
sharper. The terrain is rougher now, and the moon casts a cold
pale light over everything, creating shadowy shapes everywhere.
A cold wind cuts through you, but it’s not just the cold air of a
night in the highlands; the air carries a scent of death and decay.
As your group continues to doggedly follow the tracks, a boulder
crashes in front of you—not blocking the path, but certainly get-
ting your attention. About 60 feet above you, to your right, is a
sheer cliff side, and on top of that cliff stand four huge forms.
Their laughing rumbles deeply in their throats, and they are about
to throw more rocks.
The stars are a brilliant canopy overhead as you follow the trail
over the broken terrain of the Thesk foothills. The dips in the
trail get steeper and rockier in turns, and you occasionally hear
the breeze through the grasses and trees of the foothills.
Unapproachable EastWeb Enhancement
6