 
 4 
Introduction 
This is the Dungeons & Dragons® Roleplaying Game, the game 
that defines the genre and has set the standard for fantasy role-
playing for more than 30 years. 
D&D® is a game of your imagination in which you participate in 
thrilling adventures and dangerous quests by taking on the role of a 
hero—a character you create. Your character might be a strong 
fighter or a clever rogue, a devout cleric or a powerful wizard. With a 
few trusted allies at your side, you explore ruins and monster-filled 
dungeons in search of treasure. The game offers endless possibilities 
and a multitude of choices—more choices than even the most 
sophisticated computer game, because you can do whatever you can 
imagine. 
 
THE D&D GAME 
The D&D game is a fantasy game of your imagination. It’s part 
acting, part storytelling, part social interaction, part war game, and 
part dice rolling. You and your friends create characters that develop 
and grow with each adventure they complete. One player is the 
Dungeon Master (DM). The DM controls the monsters and ene-
mies, narrates the action, referees the game, and sets up the adven-
tures. Together, the Dungeon Master and the players make the game 
come alive. 
This Player’s Handbook  has all the rules players need to create 
characters, select equipment, and engage in combat with a variety of 
supernatural and mythical foes. 
The Dungeon Master’s Guide, available separately, provides the DM 
with advice, guidelines, and everything he or she needs to create 
challenges, adventures, and full-fledged D&D campaigns, including 
sections on prestige classes, magic items, and character rewards. 
The Monster Manual , available separately, contains material that 
players and DMs alike will find useful. With hundreds of monsters 
to populate all levels of dungeons, this tome also includes monster 
creation rules, information on playing monsters as characters, 
details on monster tactics, and powered-up versions of standard 
creatures. 
Together, these three volumes comprise the core rules for the 
Dungeons & Dragons game. 
 
THREE DIMENSIONS 
The Dungeons & Dragons game is a game of imagination, but it 
is also a game of tactics and strategy. Miniatures and a battle grid 
provide the best way to visualize the action. Miniatures, represent-
ing characters and monsters in the game, can be purchased from 
most hobby shops. The Dungeon Master’s Guide  includes a paper 
battle grid. More durable versions may be purchased separately. 
The game assumes the use of miniatures and a battle grid, and the 
rules are written from this perspective. 
 
CHARACTERS 
Your characters star in the adventures you play, just like the heroes 
of a book or movie. As a player, you create a character using the rules 
in this book. Your character might be a savage barbarian from the 
frozen wastes or a clever rogue with a quick wit and a quicker blade. 
You might be a deadly archer trained in survival techniques or a 
wizard who has mastered the arcane arts. As your character 
participates in adventures, he or she gains experience and becomes 
more powerful. 
 
ADVENTURES 
Your character is an adventurer, a hero who sets out on epic quests 
for fortune and glory. Other characters join your adventuring party 
to explore dungeons and battle monsters such as the terrible dragon 
or the carnivorous troll. These quests unfold as stories created by the 
actions your characters perform and the situations your DM 
presents. 
A Dungeons & Dragons adventure features plenty of action, 
exciting combat, terrifying monsters, epic challenges, and all kinds 
of mysteries to uncover. What lies at the heart of the dungeons? 
What waits around the next corner or behind the next door? Playing 
the roles of your characters, you and your friends face the dangers 
and explore a world of medieval fantasy. 
One adventure might play out in a single game session; another 
might stretch across several sessions of play. A session lasts as long 
as you and your friends want to play, from a couple of hours to an all-
day affair. The game can be stopped at any time and picked up 
wherever you left off when everyone gets back together. 
Every adventure is different, every quest unique. Your character 
might explore ancient ruins guarded by devious traps or loot the 
tomb of a long-forgotten wizard. You might sneak into a castle to spy 
on an enemy or face the life-draining touch of an undead creature. 
Anything is possible in a Dungeons & Dragons game, and your 
character can try to do anything you can imagine. 
 
PLAYING THE GAME 
Dungeons & Dragons uses a core mechanic to resolve all actions 
in the game. This central game rule keeps play fast and intuitive. 
The Core Mechanic:  Whenever you attempt an action that has 
some chance of failure, you roll a twenty-sided die (d20). To deter-
mine if your character succeeds at a task (such as attacking a mon-
ster or using a skill), you do this: 
 
WHY A REVISION? 
The new Dungeons & Dragons game debuted in 2000. In the three
years since the d20 Open System energies the RPG industry, we’ve
gathered tons of data on how the game is being played. We consider
D&D to be a living game that constantly evolves as it is played. 
We’ve gathered feedback from as many people who have played D&D
as we could. We’ve talked to you at conventions, examined countless
message boards devoted to the game, and collected information from a
variety of customer-response outlets including our customer service
department. We used all this data to retool the game from the ground up
and incorporate everyone’s suggestions. We listened to what you had to
say, and we responded enthusiastically to improve the game and this
product. 
If this is your first experience with D&D, we welcome you to a wonder-
ful world of adventure and imagination. If you used the prior version o
f
this book, rest assured that this revision is a testament to our dedication 
to continuous product improvement. We’ve updated errata, clarified 
rules, and made the game even better than it was. But also rest assured 
that this is an upgrade of the d20 System, not a new edition of the game. 
This revision is compatible with all existing products, and those products 
can be used with the revision with only minor adjustments. 
What’s new in the revised Player’s Handbook ? We’ve increased the 
number of feats and spells to choose from, and we’ve added new class 
features to the barbarian, bard, druid, monk, ranger, and sorcerer. The 
entire book has been polished and refined, all in response to your feed-
back and to reflect the way the game is actually being played. We’ve 
streamlined some rules, expanded others. We’ve overhauled skills and 
spells. 
Take a look, play the game. We think you’ll like how everything turned 
out. 
INTRODUCTION 