 
 6 
wisecracking rogue, a reckless barbarian or a cautious wizard. With 
your character in mind, respond to each situation as it comes up. 
Sometimes combat is called for, but other situation might be solved 
through magic, negotiation, or judicious skill use. 
Also consider how you respond. Do you narrate your character0s 
action (“Tordek moves to the doorway and attacks the bugbear”) or 
speak as your character (“I move to the doorway and take a mighty 
swing at the monster”)? Either method is fine, and you can even vary 
your approach to match the situation. 
D&D is a social experience as well as an imaginative one. Be 
creative, be daring, and be true to your character… and most of all, 
have fun! 
 
CHARACTER CREATION 
Review Chapters 1 through 5, then follow these steps to create a 1st-
level character. You need a photocopy of the character sheet, a 
pencil, scrap paper, and four 6-sided dice. 
 
CHECK WITH YOUR DUNGEON MASTER 
Your DM may have house rules or campaign standards that vary 
from these rules. You should also find out what the other players 
have created so that your character fits into the group. 
 
ROLL ABILITY SCORES 
Roll your character’s six ability scores. Determine each one by 
rolling four six-sided dice, ignoring the lowest die roll, and totaling 
the other three. Record your six results on scrap paper. 
See Chapter 1 (beginning on the next page) for more details. 
 
CHOOSE YOUR CLASS AND RACE 
Choose your class and race at the same time, because some races are 
better suited to certain classes. The classes, detailed in Chapter 3, are 
barbarian, bard, cleric, druid, fighter, monk, paladin, ranger, rogue, 
sorcerer, and wizard. Each class description includes a “Races” 
section that provides some advice. 
The Races, described in Chapter 2, are human, dwarf, elf, gnome, 
halflings, half-elf, and half-orc. 
Write your class and race selections on your character sheet. 
 
ASSIGN AND ADJUST ABILITY SCORES 
Now that you know your character’s class and race, take the ability 
scores you rolled earlier and assign each to one of the six abilities: 
Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma. Adjust these scores up or down, according to your race, as 
indicated on Table 2–1: Racial Ability Adjustments (page 12). 
Put high scores in abilities that support your class selection. Each 
class description includes an “Abilities” section that provides some 
advice. 
For each ability score, record the character’s modifier, as indicated 
on Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells (page 8). Ability 
modifiers adjust many die rolls in the game, including attack rolls, 
damage rolls, skill checks, and saving throws. 
Record your adjusted ability scores and their modifiers on your 
character sheet. 
 
REVIEW THE STARTING PACKAGE 
There is at least one starting package at the end of each class 
description. Look at the class’s starting package. It offers a fast way to 
complete the next several steps of character creation. If you like the 
feat, skills, and equipment listed there, record this information on 
your character sheet. Otherwise, use this information as a guide and 
make your own decisions. 
 
RECORD RACIAL AND CLASS FEATURES 
Your character’s race and class provide certain features. Most of 
these are automatic, but some involve making choices and thinking 
ahead about upcoming character creation steps. Feel free to look 
ahead or to backtrack and do something over if you need to. 
 
SELECT SKILLS 
Your character’s class and Intelligence modifier determine how 
many skill points you have to buy skills (see page 62). 
Skills are measured in ranks. Each rank adds +1 to skill checks 
made using a specific skill. 
At 1st level, you can buy as many as 4 ranks in a class skill (a skill 
on your class’s list of class skills) for 4 skill points, or as many as 2 
ranks in a cross-class skill (a skill from another class’s list of class 
skills) for the same cost. (You get more out of purchasing class 
skills.) 
Buying skills goes faster if you spend 4 skill points (your maxi-
mum) on every skill you buy, as we’ve done in the starting packages. 
Once you’ve selected your skills, determine the skill modifier for 
each one. To do this, add the skill ranks to the ability modifier 
associated with the skill and record it on your character sheet. 
Table 4–2: Skills (page 63) lists all the skills in the game and 
indicates which skills are class skills for which classes. 
  
SELECT A FEAT 
Each 1st-level character starts with a feat. Table 5–1: Feats (page 90) 
lists all feats, their prerequisites (if any), and a brief description. 
 
REVIEW DESCRIPTION CHAPTER 
Look over Chapter 6: Description. It helps you detail your character. 
You can this now or wait until later. 
 
SELECT EQUIPMENT 
Use the equipment from your class’s starting package, or randomly 
determine your starting gold (see page 111) and buy your own gear 
piece by piece, using the information in Chapter 7: Equipment. 
 
RECORD COMBAT NUMBERS 
Determine these statistics and record them on your character sheet. 
Hit Points:  Your hit points (hp) determine how hard your 
character is to kill. At 1st level, wizards and sorcerers get 4 hp; 
rogues and bards get 6 hp; clerics, druids, monks, and rangers get 8 
hp; fighters and paladins get 10 hp; and barbarians get 12 hp. To this 
number, add you character’s Constitution modifier. 
Armor Class: Your Armor Class (AC) determines how hard your 
character is to hit. Add the following numbers together to get your 
AC: 10 + your armor bonus + your shield bonus + your size modifier 
+ your Dexterity modifier. 
Initiative: Your character’s initiative modifier equals your 
Dexterity modifier. The Improved Initiative feat provides an 
additional modifier if you select it. 
Attack Bonuses:  Your class determines your base attack bonus. 
To determine your melee attack bonus for when you get into close-
combat fights, add your Strength modifier to your base attack bonus. 
To determine your ranged attack bonus for when you attack from a 
distance, add your Dexterity modifier to your base attack bonus. 
Saving Throws:  Your class determines your base saving throw 
bonuses. To these numbers, add your Constitution modifier to get 
your Fortitude save, your Dexterity modifier to get your Reflex save, 
and your Wisdom modifier to get your Will save. 
 
DETAILS, DETAILS, DETAILS 
Now choose a name for your character, determine the character’s 
gender, choose an alignment, decide the character’s age and 
appearance, and so on. Chapter 6: Description can help with this. 
There’s no need to develop your character completely. With your 
DM’s permission, you can always add or even change details as you 
play and as get a better feel for your character. 
INTRODUCTION 