 
 10 
/rhombus4 Turning checks for clerics and paladins attempting to turn 
zombies, vampires, and other undead. 
Sorcerers and bards get bonus spells based on their Charisma 
scores. The minimum Charisma score needed to cast a sorcerer or 
bard spell is 10 + the spell’s level. 
 
Average Charisma Scores 
 Average Average 
Example Race or Creature Kind Wisdom Modifier 
Zombie, golem, shrieker (fungus) 1 –5 
Spider, crocodile, lizard, rhinoceros 2 –4 
Tendriculos, octopus 3 –4 
Dire rat, weasel, chuul, donkey 4–5 –3 
Badger, troll, giant fire beetle, bear 6–7 –2 
Gnoll, dire boar, manticore, gorgon 8–9 –1 
Human, wolverine, dretch (demon) 10–11 +0 
Treant, roper, doppelganger, night hag 12–13 +1 
Storm giant, barghest, medusa 14–15 +2 
Ogre mage, pixie, harpy, achaierai 16–17 +3 
Greater barghest, nixie 18–19 +4 
Astral deva (angel), kraken 20–21 +5 
Great wyrm gold dragon 32–33 +11  
 
EXAMPLE OF GENERATING AND 
ASSIGNING ABILITY SCORES 
Monte wants to create a new character. He rolls four six-sided dice 
(4d6) and gets 5, 4, 4, and 1. Ignoring the lowest roll (1), he records 
the result on scratch paper: 13. He rolls the dice five more times and 
gets these six scores: 13, 10, 15, 12, 8, and 14. Monte decides to play a 
strong, tough dwarf fighter. Now he assigns his scores to abilities. 
Strength gets the highest score, 15. His character has a +2 
Strength bonus that will serve him well in combat. 
Constitution gets the next highest score, 14. The dwarf’s +2 racial 
bonus to Constitution (see Table 2–1: Racial Ability Adjustments, 
page 12) improves his Constitution score to 16, which gives him a +3 
modifier. This bonus gives the character more hit points and better 
Fortitude saving throws. 
Monte puts his lowest score, 8, into Charisma. The dwarf’s –2 
racial penalty to Charisma (see Table 2–1) reduces his Charisma 
score to 6, for a –2 penalty. 
Monte has two bonus-range scores left (13 and 12), plus an aver-
age score (10). Dexterity gets the 13 (+1 bonus), which helps with 
ranged weapon attacks and with Reflex saving throws. (Monte’s also 
thinking ahead. A Dexterity score of 13 qualifies his character for 
the Dodge feat—see Table 5–1: Feats, page 90). 
Wisdom gets the 12 (+1 bonus). The Wisdom bonus helps with 
perception skills, such as Spot and Listen (see Table 4–2: Skills, page 
63), as well as with Will saving throws. 
Intelligence gets the 10 (no bonus or penalty). An average Intel-
ligence isn’t bad for a fighter. 
Monte records his character’s race, class, ability scores, and ability 
modifiers on his character sheet. 
 
CHANGING ABILITY SCORES 
Over time, the ability scores your character starts with can change. 
Ability scores can increase with no limit. Points at which ability 
changes occur include the following: 
/rhombus4 Add 1 point to any score upon attaining 4th level and at every 
fourth level your character attains thereafter (8th, 12th, 16th, and 
20th level). 
/rhombus4 Many spells and magical effects temporarily increase or decrease 
ability scores. The ray of enfeeblement  spell reduces a creature’s 
Strength, and the bull’s strength  spell increases it. Sometimes a 
spell simply hampers a character, reducing his or her ability score. 
A character trapped by an entangle spell, for example, acts as if his 
or her Dexterity were 4 points lower than it really is. 
/rhombus4 Several magic items improve ability scores as long as the character 
is using them. For example, gloves of dexterity improve the wearer’s 
Dexterity score. (Magic items are described in the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide.) Note that a magic item of this type can’t change an 
ability score by more than +6. 
/rhombus4 Some rare magic items can boost an ability score permanently, as 
can a wish spell. Such an increase is called an inherent bonus. An 
ability score can’t have an inherent bonus of more than +5. 
/rhombus4 Poisons, diseases, and other effects can temporarily harm an 
ability (ability damage). Ability points lost to damage return on 
their own at a rate of 1 point per day for each damaged ability. 
/rhombus4 Some effects drain abilities, resulting in a permanent loss (ability 
drain). Points lost this way don’t return on their own, but they can 
be regained with spells, such as restoration. 
/rhombus4 As a character ages, some ability scores go up and others go down. 
See Table 6–5: Aging Effects (page 109). 
When an ability score changes, all attributes associated with that 
score change accordingly. For example, when Mialee becomes a 4th-
level wizard, she decides to increase her Intelligence score to 16. 
That score gives her a 3rd-level bonus spell (which she’ll pick up 
upon attaining 5th level, when she becomes able to cast 3rd-level 
spells), and it increases the number of skill points she gets per level 
from 4 to 5 (2 per level for her class, plus another 3 per level from 
her Intelligence bonus). As a new 4th-level character, she can get 
the skill points immediately after raising her Intelligence, so she’ll 
get 5 points for attaining 4th level in the wizard class. She does not 
retroactively get additional points for her previous levels (that is, 
skill points she would have gained if she had had an Intelligence 
score of 16 starting at 1st level). 
INTELLIGENCE, WISDOM, AND CHARISMA 
You can use your character’s Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores
to guide you in roleplaying your character. Here is some background
(just guidelines) about what these scores can mean. 
A smart character (one with high Intelligence) is curious, knowledge-
able, and prone to using big words. A character with a high Intelligence
but low Wisdom may be smart but absentminded, or knowledgeable but
lacking in common sense. A character with a high Intelligence but a low
Charisma may be a know-it-all or a reclusive scholar. A smart character
lacking in both Wisdom and Charisma may put her foot in her mouth
often. 
A character with a low Intelligence mispronounces and misuses
words, has trouble following directions, or fails to get the joke. 
A character with a high Wisdom score may be sensible, serene, “in
tune,” alert, or centered. A character with a high Wisdom but low 
Intelligence may be aware, but simple. A character with high Wisdom but 
low Charisma knows enough to speak carefully and may become an 
advisor (or “power behind the throne”) rather than a leader. The wise 
character lacking in both Intelligence and Charisma is uncouth and unso-
phisticated. 
A character with a low Wisdom score may be rash, imprudent, irre-
sponsible, or “out of it.” 
A character with high Charisma may be attractive, striking, personable, 
and confident. A character with high Charisma but a low Intelligence can 
usually pass herself off as knowledgeable, until she meets a true expert. 
A charismatic character lacking in both Intelligence and Wisdom is likely 
to be shallow and unaware of others’ feelings. 
A character with low Charisma may be reserved, gruff, rude, fawning, 
or simply nondescript. 
CHAPTER 1: 
ABILITIES 