 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
he elven woods are home to the elves and their allies. 
Not many dwarves or half-orcs live there. In turn, elves, 
humans, halflings, and half-orcs are hard to find in 
underground dwarven cities. And while nonhumans may 
travel through the human countryside, most country folk 
are humans. In the big cities, however, the promise of power and 
profit brings together people of all the common races: humans, 
dwarves, elves, gnomes, half-elves, half-orcs, and halflings. 
 
CHOOSING A RACE 
After you roll your ability scores and before you write them on your 
character sheet, choose your character’s race. At the same time, you 
should choose a class, since race affects how well a character can do 
in each class. Once you know your character’s race and class, assign 
your ability score rolls to particular abilities, alter those abilities 
according to race, and continue detailing your character. 
You can play a character of any race and class combination, but 
certain races do better pursuing certain careers. Halflings, for 
example, can be fighters, but their small size and special features 
make them better as rogues. 
Your character’s race gives you plenty of cues as to what sort of 
person he or she is, how he or she feels about characters of other 
races, and what his or her motivations might be. Remember, how-
ever, that these descriptions apply only to the majority of each race’s 
members. In each race, some individuals diverge from the norm, 
and your character could be one of these. Don’t let a description of a 
race keep you from detailing your character as you like. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RACIAL CHARACTERISTICS 
Your character’s race determines some of his or her qualities. 
 
ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 
Find your character’s race on Table 2–1: Racial Ability 
Adjustments (see the next page) and apply the adjustments you 
see there to your character’s ability scores. If these changes put 
your score above 18 or below 3, that’s okay, except in the case 
of Intelligence, which does not go below 3 for characters. (If 
your half-orc character would have an adjusted Intelligence of 
1 or 2, make it 3 instead.) 
For example, Lidda, a halfling, gets a +2 racial bonus on her 
Dexterity score and a –2 racial penalty on her Strength score. 
Knowing this, her player puts her best score rolled (15) in 
Dexterity so that it will increase to 17. She doesn’t want a 
Strength penalty, so she puts an above-average score (12) in 
Strength. Her Strength score drops to 10, which carries 
neither a bonus nor a penalty. 
 
FAVORED CLASS 
Each race’s favored class is also given on Table 2–1: Racial 
Ability Adjustments. A character’s favored class doesn’t 
count against him or her when determining experience 
point penalties for multiclassing (see XP for Multiclass 
Characters, page 60). 
For example, as a halfling rogue, Lidda can add a second 
class later on (becoming a multiclass character) without 
worrying about an XP penalty, because rogue is favored 
class for halflings. 
 
11