 
 13
and dress, sporting unusual hairstyles, fanciful clothes, tattoos, body 
piercings, and the like. Humans have short life spans, reaching 
adulthood at about age 15 and rarely living even a single century. 
Relations: J u s t  a s  r e a d i l y  a s  t h e y  m i x  w i t h  e a c h  o t h e r ,  h u m a n s  
mix with members of other races, among which they are known as 
“everyone’s second-best friends.” Humans serve as ambassadors, 
diplomats, magistrates, merchants, and functionaries of all kinds. 
Alignment: Humans tend toward no particular alignment, not 
even neutrality. The best and the worst are found among them. 
Human Lands: Human lands are usually in flux, with new ideas, 
social changes, innovations, and new leaders constantly coming to 
the fore. Members of longer-lived races find human culture exciting 
but eventually a little wearying or even bewildering. 
Since humans lead such short lives, their leaders are all young 
compared to the political, religious, and military leaders among the 
other races. Even where individual humans are conservative 
traditionalists, human institutions change with the generations, 
adapting and evolving faster than parallel institutions among the 
elves, dwarves, gnomes, and halflings. Individually and as a group, 
humans are adaptable opportunists, and they stay on top of changing 
political dynamics. 
Human lands generally include relatively large numbers of 
nonhumans (compared, for instance, to the number of non-dwarves 
who live in dwarven lands). 
Religion: Unlike members of the other common races, humans 
do not have a chief racial deity. Pelor, the sun god, is the most 
commonly worshiped deity in human lands, but he can claim 
nothing like the central place that the dwarves give Moradin or the 
elves give Corellon Larethian in their respective pantheons. Some 
humans are the most ardent and zealous adherents of a given 
religion, while others are the most impious people around. 
Language: Humans speak Common. They typically learn other 
languages as well, including obscure ones, and they are fond of 
sprinkling their speech with words borrowed from other tongues: 
Orc curses, Elven musical expressions, Dwarven military phrases, 
and so on. 
Names: Human names vary greatly. Without a unifying deity to 
give them a touchstone for their culture, and with such a fast 
breeding cycle, humans mutate socially at a fast rate. Human cul-
ture, therefore, is more diverse than other cultures, and no human 
names are truly typical. Some human parents give their children 
dwarven or elven names (pronounced more or less correctly). 
Adventurers: Human adventurers are the most audacious, 
daring, and ambitious members of an audacious, daring, and 
ambitious race. A human can earn glory in the eyes of her fellows by 
amassing power, wealth, and fame. Humans, more than other 
people, champion causes rather than territories or groups. 
 
HUMAN RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 Medium: As Medium creatures, humans have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 
/rhombus4 Human base land speed is 30 feet. 
/rhombus4 1 extra feat at 1st level, because humans are quick to master 
specialized tasks and varied in their talents. See Chapter 5: Feats. 
/rhombus4 4 extra skill points at 1st level and 1 extra skill point at each 
additional level, since humans are versatile and capable. (The 4 
skill points at 1st level are added on as a bonus, not multiplied in; 
see Chapter 4: Skills.) 
/rhombus4 Automatic Language: Common. Bonus Languages: Any (other 
than secret languages, such as Druidic). See other racial lists for 
common languages or the Speak Language skill (page 82) for a 
more comprehensive list. Humans mingle with all kinds of other 
folk and thus can learn any language found in an area. 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 