 
 15
/rhombus4 Stonecunning: This ability grants a dwarf a +2 racial bonus on 
Search checks to notice unusual stonework, such as sliding walls, 
stonework traps, new construction (even when built to match the 
old), unsafe stone surfaces, shaky stone ceilings, and the like. 
Something that isn’t stone but that is disguised as stone also 
counts as unusual stonework. A dwarf who merely comes within 
10 feet of unusual stonework can make a Search check as if he 
were actively searching, and a dwarf can use the Search skill to 
find stonework traps as a rogue can. A dwarf can also intuit depth, 
sensing his approximate depth underground as naturally as a 
human can sense which way is up. Dwarves have a sixth sense 
about stonework, an innate ability that they get plenty of 
opportunity to practice and hone in their underground homes. 
/rhombus4 Weapon Familiarity: Dwarves may treat dwarven waraxes and 
dwarven urgroshes (see Chapter 7:Equipment) as martial 
weapons, rather than exotic weapons. 
/rhombus4 Stability: Dwarves are exceptionally stable on their feet. A dwarf 
gains a +4 bonus on ability checks made to resist being bull 
rushed or tripped when standing on the ground (but not when 
climbing, flying, riding, or otherwise not standing firmly on the 
ground). 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on saving throws against poison: Dwarves are 
hardy and resistant to toxins. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like 
effects: dwarves have an innate resistance to magic spells. 
/rhombus4 +1 racial bonus to attack rolls against orcs (including half-orcs) 
and goblinoids (including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears): 
Dwarves are trained in the special combat techniques that allow 
them to fight their common enemies more effectively. 
/rhombus4 +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against monsters of the giant type 
(such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants): This bonus represents 
special training that dwarves undergo, during which they learn 
tricks that previous generations developed in their battles with 
giants. Any time a creature loses its Dexterity bonus (if any) to 
Armor Class, such as when it’s caught flat-footed, it loses its dodge 
bonus, too. The Monster Manual  has information on which 
creatures are of the giant type. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Appraise checks that are related to stone or 
metal items: Dwarves are familiar with valuable items of all kinds, 
especially those made of stone or metal. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Craft checks that are related to stone or metal: 
Dwarves are especially capable with stonework and metalwork. 
/rhombus4 Automatic Languages: Common and Dwarven. Bonus Languages: 
Giant, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, Terran, and Undercommon. Dwarves 
are familiar with the languages of their enemies and of their 
subterranean allies. 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Fighter. A multiclass dwarf’s fighter class does not 
count when determining whether he takes an experience point 
penalty for multiclassing. (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 
60). Dwarven culture extols the virtues of battle, and the vocation 
comes easily to dwarves. 
 
ELVES 
Elves mingle freely in human lands, always welcome yet never at 
home there. They are well known for their poetry, dance, song, lore, 
and magical arts. Elves favor things of natural and simple beauty. 
When danger threatens their woodland homes, however, elves 
reveal a more martial side, demonstrating skill with sword, bow, and 
battle strategy. 
Personality: Elves are more often amused than excited, and more 
likely to be curious than greedy. With such a long life span, they 
tend to keep a broad perspective on events, remaining aloof and 
unfazed by petty happenstance. When pursuing a goal, however, 
whether an adventurous mission or learning a new skill or art, they 
can be focused and relentless. They are slow to make friends and 
enemies, and even slower to forget them. They reply to petty insults 
with disdain and to serious insults with vengeance. 
Physical Description: Elves are short and slim, standing about 4-
1/2 to 5-1/2 feet tall and typically weighing 95 to 135 pounds, with 
elf men the same height as and only marginally heavier than elf 
women. They are graceful but frail. They tend to be pale-skinned 
and dark-haired, with deep green eyes. Elves have no facial or body 
hair. They prefer simple, comfortable clothes, especially in pastel 
blues and greens, and they enjoy simple yet elegant jewelry. Elves 
possess unearthly grace and fine features. Many humans and 
members of other races find them hauntingly beautiful. An elf 
reaches adulthood at about 110 years of age and can live to be more 
than 700 years old. 
Elves do not sleep, as members of the other common races do. 
Instead, an elf meditates in a deep trance for 4 hours a day. An elf 
resting in this fashion gains the same benefit that a human does 
from 8 hours of sleep. While meditating, an elf dreams, though 
these dreams are actually mental exercises that have become 
reflexive through years of practice. The Common word for an elf’s 
meditation is “trance,” as in “four hours of trance.” 
Relations: Elves consider humans rather unrefined, halflings a 
bit staid, gnomes somewhat trivial, and dwarves not at all fun. They 
look on half-elves with some degree of pity, and they regard half-
orcs with unrelenting suspicion. While haughty, elves are not parti-
cular the way halflings and dwarves can be, and they are generally 
pleasant and gracious even to those who fall short of elven standards 
(a category that encompasses just about everybody who’s not an elf). 
Alignment: Since elves love freedom, variety, and self-expres-
sion. They lean strongly toward the gentler aspects of chaos. Gen-
erally, they value and protect others’ freedom as well as their own, 
and they are more often good than not. 
Elven Lands: Most elves live in woodland clans numbering less 
than two hundred souls. Their well-hidden villages blend into the 
trees, doing little harm to the forest. They hunt game, gather food, 
and grow vegetables, and their skill and magic allowing them to 
support themselves amply without the need for clearing and 
plowing land. Their contact with outsiders is usually limited, though 
some few elves make a good living trading finely worked elven 
clothes and crafts for the metals that elves have no interest in 
mining. 
Elves encountered in human lands are commonly wandering 
minstrels, favored artists, or sages. Human nobles compete for the 
services of elf instructors, who teach swordplay to their children. 
Religion: Above all others, elves worship Corellon Larethian, the 
Protector and Preserver of life. Elven myth holds that it was from his 
blood, shed in battles with Gruumsh, the god of the orcs, that the 
elves first arose. Corellon is a patron of magical study, arts, dance, 
and poetry, as well as a powerful warrior god. 
Language: Elves speak a fluid language of subtle intonations and 
intricate grammar. While Elven literature is rich and varied, it is the 
language’s songs and poems that are most famous. Many bards learn 
Elven so they can add Elven ballads to their repertoires. Others 
simply memorize Elven songs by sound. The Elven script, as flowing 
as the spoken word, also serves as the script for Sylvan, the language 
of dryads and pixies, for Aquan, the language of water-based 
creatures, and for Undercommon, the language of the drow and 
other subterranean creatures. 
Names: When an elf declares herself an adult, usually some time 
after her hundredth birthday, she also selects a name. Those who 
knew her as a youngster may or may not continue to call her by her 
“child name,” and she may or may not care. An elf’s adult name is a 
unique creation, though it may reflect the names of those she 
admires or the names of others in her family. In addition, she bears 
her family name. Family names are combinations of regular Elven 
words; and some elves traveling among humans translate their 
names into Common while others use the Elven version. 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 