 
 
19
Half-orcs mature a little faster than humans and age noticeably 
faster. They reach adulthood at age 14, and few live longer than 75 
years. 
Relations: Because orcs are the sworn enemies of dwarves and 
elves, half-orcs can have a rough time with members of these races. 
For that matter, orcs aren’t exactly on good terms with humans, 
halflings, or gnomes, either. Each half-orc finds a way to gain 
acceptance from those who hate or fear his orc cousins. Some half-
orcs are reserved, trying not to draw attention to themselves. A few 
demonstrate piety and good-heartedness as publicly as they can 
(whether or not such demonstrations are genuine). Others simply 
try to be so tough that others have no choice but to accept them. 
Alignment: Half-orcs inherit a tendency toward chaos from their 
orc parents, but, like their human parents, they favor good and evil 
in equal proportions. Half-orcs raised among orcs and willing to live 
out their lives with them are usually the evil ones. 
Half-Orc Lands:  Half-orcs have no 
lands of their own, but they most 
often live among orcs. Of the 
other races, humans are the 
ones most likely to accept 
half-orcs, and half-orcs 
almost always live in 
human lands when not 
living among orc tribes. 
Religion: Like orcs, 
many half-orcs worship 
Gruumsh, the chief orc god and 
archenemy of Corellon Larethian, 
god of the elves. While Gruumsh 
is evil, half-orc barbarians and fighters 
may worship him as a war god even if they 
are not evil themselves. Worshipers of 
Gruumsh who are tired of explaining 
themselves, or who don’t want to give 
humans a reason to distrust them, 
simply don’t make their religion 
public knowledge. Half-orcs who 
want to solidify their connect-
ion to their human heritage, 
on the other hand, follow 
human gods, and they may be 
outspoken in their shows of piety.  
Language: Orc, which has no 
alphabet of its own, uses Dwarven 
script on the rare occasions that 
someone writes something down. Orc 
writing turns up most frequently in 
graffiti. 
Names: A half-orc typically chooses a 
name that helps him make the impres-
sion that he wants to make. If he wants to 
fit in among humans, he chooses a human 
name. If he wants to intimidate others, he 
chooses a guttural orc name. A half-orc who 
has been raised entirely by humans has a 
human given name, but he may choose 
another name once he’s away from his 
hometown. Some half-orcs, of course, aren’t quite bright enough to 
choose a name this carefully. 
Orc Male Names:  Dench, Feng, Gell, Henk, Holg, Imsh, Keth, 
Krusk, Ront, Shump, Thokk. 
Orc Female Names:  Baggi, Emen, Engong, Myev, Neega, Ovak, 
Ownka, Shautha, Vola, Volen. 
Adventurers: Half-orcs living among humans are drawn almost 
invariably toward violent careers in which they can put their 
strength to good use. Frequently shunned from polite company, 
half-orcs often find acceptance and friendship among adventurers, 
many of whom are fellow wanderers and outsiders. 
HALF-ORC RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 +2 Strength, –2 Intelligence, –2 Charisma: Half-orcs are strong, 
but their orc lineage makes them dull and crude. 
/rhombus4 Medium: As Medium- creatures, half-orcs have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 
/rhombus4 Half-orc base land speed is 30 feet. 
/rhombus4 Darkvision: Half-orcs (and orcs) can see in the dark up to 60 feet. 
Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal 
sight, and half-orcs can function just fine with no light at all. 
/rhombus4 Orc Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-orc is considered 
an orc. Half-orcs, for example, are just as vulnerable to special 
effects that affect orcs as their orc ancestors are, and they can use 
magic items that are only usable by orcs. (See the Monster Manual 
for more information about orcs, and the Dungeon Master’s Guide  
for more on magic items.) 
/rhombus4 Automatic Languages: Common and 
Orc. Bonus Languages: Draconic, 
Giant, Gnoll, Goblin, and 
Abyssal. Smart half-orcs 
(who are rare) may know 
the languages of their 
allies or rivals. 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Barbarian. 
A multiclass half-orc’s 
barbarian class does not 
count when determining 
whether he takes an expe-
rience point penalty (see 
XP for Multiclass Charact-
ers, page 60). Ferocity runs 
in a half-orc’s veins. 
 
HALFLINGS 
Halflings are clever, capable opportunists. Halfling 
individuals and clans find room for themselves 
wherever they can. Often they are strangers and 
wanderers, and others react to them with suspicion 
or curiosity. Depending on the clan, halflings might 
be reliable, hard-working (if clannish) citizens, or 
they might be thieves just waiting for the 
opportunity to make a big score and disappear in the 
dead of night. Regardless, halflings are cunning, 
resourceful survivors. 
Personality: Halflings prefer trouble to 
boredom. They are notoriously curious. 
Relying on their ability to survive or 
escape danger, they demonstrate 
a daring that many larger 
people can’t match. Halflings clans are 
nomadic, wandering wherever circumstance 
and curiosity take them. Halflings enjoy wealth 
and the pleasure it can bring, and they tend to spend gold as 
quickly as they acquire it. 
Halflings are also famous collectors. While more orthodox 
halflings may collect weapons, books, or jewelry, some collect such 
objects as the hides of wild beasts—or even the beasts themselves. 
Wealthy halflings sometimes commission adventurers to retrieve 
exotic items to complete their collections. 
Physical Description: Halflings stand about 3 feet tall and usu-
ally weigh between 30 and 35 pounds. Their skin is ruddy, their hair 
black and straight. They have brown or black eyes. Halfling men 
often have long sideburns, but beards are rare among them and 
mustaches almost unseen. They like to wear simple, comfortable, 
and practical clothes. A halfling reaches adulthood at the age of 20 
and generally lives into the middle of her second century. 
Relations: Halflings try to get along with everyone else. They are 
adept at fitting into a community of humans, dwarves, elves, or 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 