 
 
20 
gnomes and making themselves valuable and welcome. Since 
human society changes faster than the societies of the longer-lived 
races, it is human society that most frequently offers halflings 
opportunities to exploit, and halflings are most often found in or 
around human lands. 
Alignment: Halflings tend to be neutral. While they are com-
fortable with change (a chaotic trait), they also tend to rely on intan-
gible constants, such as clan ties and personal honor (a lawful trait). 
Halfling Lands:  Halflings have no lands of their own. Instead, 
they live in the lands of other races, where they can benefit from 
whatever resources those lands have to offer. Halflings often form 
tight-knit communities in human or dwarven cities. While they 
work readily with others, they often make friends only their own 
kind. Halflings also settle into secluded places where they set up 
self-reliant villages. Halfling communities, however, are known for 
picking up and moving en masse to some place that offers a new 
opportunity, such as a new mine that has just opened, or to a land 
where a devastating war has made skilled workers hard to find. If 
these opportunities are temporary, the community may pick up and 
move again once the opportunity is gone, or once a better one 
presents itself. Some halfling communities, on the other hand, take 
to traveling as a way of life, driving wagons or guiding boats from 
place to place, and maintaining no permanent 
home. 
Religion: The chief halfling deity is 
Yondalla, the Blessed One, protector 
of the halflings. Yondalla promises 
blessings and protection to those 
who heed her guidance, defend their 
clans, and cherish their families. 
Halflings also recognize countless 
small gods, which they say rule over 
individual villages, forests, rivers, 
lakes, and so on. They pay homage to 
these deities to ensure safe journeys 
as they travel from place to place. 
Language: Halflings speak their 
own language, which uses the 
Common script. They write very little 
in their own language so, unlike 
dwarves, elves, and gnomes, they don’t 
have a rich body of written work. The halfling 
oral tradition, however, is very strong. While the 
Halfling language isn’t secret, halflings are loath 
to share it with others. Almost all halflings speak 
Common, since they use it to deal with the 
people in whose land they are living or through which they 
are traveling. 
Names: A halfling has a given name, a family name, and 
possibly a nickname. It would seem 
that family names are nothing 
more than nicknames that stuck 
so well they have been passed 
down through the generations. 
Male Names: Alton, Beau, Cade, 
Eldon, Garret, Lyle, Milo, Osborn, 
Roscoe, Wellby. 
Female Names:  Amaryllis, 
Charmaine, Cora, Euphemia, Jillian, Lavinia, Lidda, Merla, Portia, 
Seraphina, Verna. 
Family Names: Brushgather, Goodbarrel, Greenbottle, Highhill, 
Hilltopple, Leagallow, Tealeaf, Thorngage, Tosscobble, Underbough. 
Adventurers: Halflings often set out on their own to make their 
way in the world. Halfling adventurers are typically looking for a 
way to use their skills to gain wealth or status. The distinction 
between a halfling adventurer and a halfling out on her own looking 
for “a big score” can get blurry. For a halfling, adventuring is less of a 
career than an opportunity. While halfling opportunism can 
sometimes look like larceny or fraud to others, a halfling adventurer 
who learns to trust her fellows is worthy of trust in return. 
 
HALFLING RACIAL TRAITS 
/rhombus4 +2 Dexterity, –2 Strength: Halflings are quick, agile, and good 
with ranged weapons, but they are small and therefore not as 
strong as other humanoids. 
/rhombus4 Small: As a Small creature, a halfling gains a +1 size bonus to 
Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus 
on Hide checks, but she uses smaller weapons than humans use, 
and her lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of a 
Medium character. 
/rhombus4 Halfling base land speed is 20 feet. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Climb, Jump, and Move Silently 
checks: Halflings are agile, surefooted, and 
athletic. 
/rhombus4 +1 racial bonus on all saving throws: Halflings 
are surprisingly capable of avoiding mishaps. 
/rhombus4 +2 morale bonus on saving throws against 
fear. This bonus stacks with the halfling’s 
+1 bonus on saving throws in general. 
/rhombus4 +1 racial bonus on attack rolls with a 
thrown weapon and slings: Throwing and 
slinging stones is a universal sport among 
halflings, and they develop especially 
good aim. 
/rhombus4 +2 racial bonus on Listen checks: 
Halflings have keen ears. 
/rhombus4 Automatic Languages: Common 
and Halfling. Bonus Languages: 
Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Goblin, 
and Orc. Smart halflings learn 
the languages of their friends 
and enemies. 
/rhombus4 Favored Class: Rogue. A multiclass 
halfling’s rogue class does not count when 
determining whether she take an 
experience point penalty for 
multiclassing (see XP for 
Multiclass Characters, page 60). 
Halflings have long had to rely 
on stealth, wit, and skill, and 
the vocation of rogue comes 
naturally to them. 
SMALL CHARACTERS 
A Small character gets a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +1 size bonus
on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks. The bonus on
attacks results from the fact that it’s really relative size that matters in
determining attack chances. It’s no harder for a halfling to hit another
halfling than it is for a human to hit another human, because the
attacking halfling’s bonus on attack rolls counteracts the defending 
halfling’s bonus to Armor Class. Likewise, a halfling has an easy time
hitting a human, 
just as a human has an easy time hitting an ogre, and 
an ogre has an easy time hitting a giant. 
A Small character’s carrying capacity is three-quarters of that of a 
Medium character (see Bigger and Small Creatures, page 162). 
A Small character generally moves about two-thirds as fast as a 
Medium character. 
A Small character must use smaller weapons than a Medium char-
acter (see Weapon Size, page 113). 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
CHAPTER 2: 
RACES 