 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dventurers seek gold, glory, justice, fame, power, knowl-
edge, or maybe some other goals—perhaps noble or per-
haps base. Each chooses a different way to attain those 
goals, from brutal combat power, to mighty magic, to 
subtle skills. Some adventurers prevail and grow in expe-
rience, wealth, and power. Others die. 
Your character’s class is his or her profession or vocation. It 
determines what he or she is able to do: combat prowess, magical 
ability, skills, and more. Class is probably the first choice you make 
about your character—just ahead of race, or perhaps in conjunction 
with that decision. The class you choose determines where you 
should best place your character’s ability scores and suggests which 
races are best to support that class choice. 
 
THE CLASSES 
The eleven classes, in the order they’re presented in this chapter, are 
as follows: 
Barbarian: A ferocious warrior who uses fury and instinct to 
bring down foes. 
Bard: A performer whose music works magic—a wanderer, a tale-
teller, and a jack-of-all trades. 
Cleric: A master of divine magic and a capable warrior as well. 
Druid: One who draws energy from the natural world to cast 
divine spells and gain strange magical powers. 
Fighter: A warrior with exceptional combat capability and 
unequaled skill with weapons. 
Monk: A martial artist whose unarmed strikes hit fast and hard—
a master of exotic powers. 
Paladin: A champion of justice and destroyer of evil, protected 
and strengthened by an array of divine powers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ranger: A cunning, skilled warrior of the wilderness. 
Rogue: A tricky, skillful scout and spy who wins the battle by 
stealth rather than brute force. 
Sorcerer: A spellcaster with inborn magical ability. 
Wizard: A potent spellcaster schooled in the arcane arts. 
Class Name Abbreviations:  Class names are abbreviated as 
follows: barbarian Bbn; bard Brd; cleric Clr; druid Drd; fighter 
Ftr; monk Mnk; paladin Pal; ranger Rgr; rogue Rog; sorcerer 
Sor;  wizard Wiz. 
 
THE MULTICLASS CHARACTER 
As your character advances in level, he or she may add new 
classes. Adding a new class gives the character a broader 
range of abilities, but all advancement in the new class is at 
the expense of advancement in the character’s other class or 
classes. A wizard, for example, might become a combination 
wizard/fighter. Adding the fighter class would give her pro-
ficiency in more weapons, better Fortitude saving throws, 
and so on, but it would also mean that she doesn’t gain new 
wizard abilities when she adds this second class and thus is 
not as powerful a wizard as she otherwise would have 
become if she had chosen to continue advancing as a 
wizard. Rules for creating and advancing multiclass 
characters can be found at the end of this chapter. 
 
CLASS AND LEVEL BONUSES 
An attack roll, saving throw, or skill check is a 
combination of three numbers, each representing a 
different factor: a random factor (the number you roll on a 
21