 
 29
A successful bardic knowledge check will not reveal the powers 
of a magic item but may give a hint as to its general function. A bard 
may not take 10 or take 20 on this check; this sort of knowledge is 
essentially random. The DM can determine the Difficulty Class of 
the check by referring to the table above. 
Bardic Music:  Once per day per bard level, a bard can use his 
song or poetics to produce magical effects on those around him 
(usually including himself, if desired). While these abilities fall 
under the category of bardic music and the descriptions discuss 
singing or playing instruments, they can all be activated by reciting 
poetry, chanting, singing lyrical songs, singing melodies (fa-la-la, 
and so forth), whistling, playing an instrument, or playing an 
instrument in combination with some spoken performance. Each 
ability requires both a minimum bard level and a minimum number 
of ranks in the Perform skill to qualify; if a bard does not have the 
required number of ranks in at least one Perform skill, he does not 
gain the bardic music ability until he acquires the needed ranks. 
Starting a bardic music effect is a standard action. Some bardic 
music abilities require concentration, which means the bard must 
take a standard action each round to maintain the ability. Even 
while using bardic music that doesn’t require concentration, a bard 
cannot cast spells, activate magic items by spell completion (such as 
scrolls), or activate magic items by magic word (such as wands). Just 
as for casting a spell with a verbal component (see Components, 
page 174), a deaf bard has a 20% chance to fail when attempting to 
use bardic music. If he fails, the attempt still counts against his daily 
limit. 
Countersong (Su):  A bard with 3 or more ranks in a Perform skill 
can use his music or poetics to counter magical effects that depend 
on sound (but not spells that simply have verbal components). Each 
round of the countersong, he makes a Perform check. Any creature 
within 30 feet of the bard (including the bard himself ) that is 
affected by a sonic or language-dependent magical attack (such as a 
sound burst  or command spell) may use the bard’s Perform check 
result in place of its saving throw if, after the saving throw is rolled, 
the Perform check result proves to be higher. If a creature within 
range of the countersong is already under the effect of a noninstan-
taneous sonic or language-dependent magical attack, it gains 
another saving throw against the effect each round it hears the 
countersong, but it must use the bard’s Perform check result for the 
save. Countersong has no effect against effects that don’t allow saves. 
The bard may keep up the countersong for 10 rounds. 
Fascinate (Sp): A bard with 3 or more ranks in a Perform skill can 
use his music or poetics to cause one or more creatures to become 
fascinated with him. Each creature to be fascinated must be within 
90 feet, able to see and hear the bard, and able to pay attention to 
him. The bard must also be able to see the creature. The distraction 
of a nearby combat or other dangers prevents the ability from 
working. For every three levels a bard attains beyond 1st, he can 
target one additional creature with a single use of this ability (two at 
4th level, three at 7th level, and so on). 
To use the ability, a bard makes a Perform check. His check result 
is the DC for each affected creature’s Will save against the effect. If a 
creature’s saving throw succeeds, the bard cannot attempt to 
fascinate that creature again for 24 hours. If its saving throw fails, 
the creature sits quietly and listens to the song, taking no other 
actions, for as long as the bard continues to play and concentrate (up 
to a maximum of 1 round per bard level). While fascinated, a target 
takes a –4 penalty on skill checks made as reactions, such as Listen 
and Spot checks. Any potential threat requires the bard to make 
another Perform check and allows the creature a new saving throw 
against a DC equal to the new Perform check result. Any obvious 
threat, such as someone drawing a weapon, casting a spell, or aiming 
a ranged weapon at the target, automatically breaks the effect. 
Fascinate is an enchantment (compulsion), mind-affecting ability. 
Inspire Courage (Su): A bard with 3 or more ranks in a Perform skill 
can use song or poetics to inspire courage in his allies (including 
himself ), bolstering them against fear and improving their combat 
abilities. To be affected, an ally must be able to hear the bard sing. 
The effect lasts for as long as the ally hears the bard sing and for 5 
rounds thereafter. An affected ally receives a +1 morale bonus on 
saving throws against charm and fear effects and a +1 morale bonus 
on attack and weapon damage rolls. At 8th level, and every six bard 
levels thereafter, this bonus increases by 1 (+2 at 8th, +3 at 14th, and 
+4 at 20th). Inspire courage is a mind-affecting ability. 
Inspire Competence (Su):  A bard of 3rd level or higher with 6 or 
more ranks in a Perform skill can use his music or poetics to help an 
ally succeed at a task. The ally must be within 30 feet and able to see 
and hear the bard. The bard must also be able to see the ally. 
Depending on the task that the ally has at hand, the bard may use his 
bardic music to lift the ally’s spirits, to help him or her focus 
mentally, or in some other way. The ally gets a +2 competence bonus 
on skill checks with a particular skill as long as he or she continues 
to hear the bard’s music. The DM may rule that certain uses of this 
ability are infeasible—chanting to make a rogue move more quietly, 
for example, is self-defeating. The effect lasts as long as the bard 
concentrates, up to a maximum of 2 minutes. A bard can’t inspire 
competence in himself. Inspire competence is a mind-affecting 
ability. 
Suggestion (Sp): A bard of 6th level or higher with 9 or more ranks 
in a Perform skill can make a suggestion (as the spell) to a creature 
that he has already fascinated (see above). Using this ability does not 
break the bard’s concentration on the fascinate effect, nor does it 
allow a second saving throw against the fascinate effect. Making a 
suggestion doesn’t count against a bard’s daily limit on bardic music 
performances. A Will saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 bard’s level + bard’s 
Cha modifier) negates the effect. This ability affects only a single 
creature (but see mass suggestion , below). Suggestion is an enchant-
ment (compulsion), mind-affecting, language dependent ability. 
Inspire Greatness (Su): A bard of 9th level or higher with 12 or more 
ranks in a Perform skill can use music or poetics to inspire greatness 
in himself or a single willing ally within 30 feet, granting him or her 
extra fighting capability. For every three levels a bard attains beyond 
9th, he can target one additional ally with a single use of this ability 
(two at 12th level, three at 15th, four at 18th). To inspire greatness, a 
bard must sing and an ally must hear him sing. The effect lasts for as 
long as the ally hears the bard sing and for 5 rounds thereafter. A 
creature inspired with greatness gains 2 bonus Hit Dice (d10s), the 
commensurate number of temporary hit points (apply the target’s 
Constitution modifier, if any, to these bonus Hit Dice), a +2 
competence bonus on attack rolls, and a +1 competence bonus on 
Fortitude saves. The bonus Hit Dice count as regular Hit Dice for 
determining the effect of spells such as sleep. Inspire greatness is a 
mind-affecting ability. 
Song of Freedom (Sp):  A bard of 12th level or higher with 15 or 
more ranks in a Perform skill can use music or poetics to create an 
effect equivalent to the break enchantment  spell (caster level equals 
the character’s bard level). Using this ability requires 1 minute of 
uninterrupted concentration and music, and it functions on a single 
target within 30 feet. A bard can’t use song of freedom on himself. 
Inspire Heroics (Su):  A bard of 15th level or higher with 18 or more 
ranks in a Perform skill can use music or poetics to inspire 
tremendous heroism in himself or a single willing ally within 30 
feet, allowing that creature to fight bravely even against over-
whelming odds. For every three bard levels the character attains 
beyond 15th, he can inspire heroics in one additional creature. To 
inspire heroics, a bard must sing and an ally must hear the bard sing 
for a full round. A creature so inspired gains a +4 morale bonus on 
saving throws and a +4 dodge bonus to AC. The effect lasts for as 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 