 
 33
wielding positive energy. 
An evil cleric (or a neutral cleric of an evil deity), on the other 
hand, can’t convert prepared spells to cure spells but can convert 
them to inflict spells (an inflict spell is one with “inflict” in its name). 
A cleric who is neither good nor evil and whose deity is neither 
good nor evil can convert spells to either cure spells or inflict spells 
(player’s choice), depending on whether the cleric is more proficient 
at wielding positive or negative energy. Once the player makes this 
choice, it cannot be reversed. This choice also determines whether 
the cleric turns or commands undead (see below). Exceptions: All 
lawful neutral clerics of Wee Jas (goddess of death and magic) 
convert prepared spells to inflict spells, not cure spells. All clerics of 
St. Cuthbert (god of retribution) and all nonevil clerics of Obad-Hai 
(god of nature) convert prepared spells to cure spells, not inflict spells. 
Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells: A cleric can’t cast spells 
of an alignment opposed to his own or his deity’s (if he has one). For 
example, a good cleric (or a neutral cleric of a good deity) cannot cast 
evil spells. Spells associated with particular alignments are indicated 
by the chaos, evil, good, and law descriptors in their spell 
descriptions (see Chapter 11: Spells). 
Turn or Rebuke Undead (Su):  Any cleric, regardless of align-
ment, has the power to affect undead creatures (such as skeletons, 
zombies, ghosts, and vampires) by channeling the power of his faith 
through his holy (or unholy) symbol (see Turn or Rebuke Undead, 
page 159). 
A good cleric (or a neutral cleric who worships a good deity) can 
turn or destroy undead creatures. An evil cleric (or a neutral cleric 
who worships an evil deity) instead rebukes or commands such 
creatures., forcing them to cower in awe of his power. If your 
character is a neutral cleric of a neutral deity, you must choose 
whether his turning ability functions as that of a good cleric or an 
evil cleric. Once you make this choice, it cannot be reversed. This 
decision also determines whether the cleric can cast spontaneous 
cure or inflict spells (see above). Exceptions: All lawful neutral clerics of 
Wee Jas (goddess of death and magic) rebuke or command undead. 
All clerics of St. Cuthbert (god of retribution) and all nonevil clerics 
of Obad-Hai (god of nature) turn of destroy undead. 
A cleric may attempt to turn undead a number of times per day 
equal to 3 + his Charisma modifier. A cleric with 5 or more ranks in 
Knowledge (religion) gets a +2 bonus on turning checks against 
undead. 
Bonus Languages:  A cleric’s bonus language options include 
Celestial, Abyssal, and Infernal (the languages of good, chaotic evil, 
and lawful evil outsiders, respectively). These choices are in addition 
to the bonus languages available to the character because of his race 
(see Race and Languages, page 12, and the Speak Language skill, 
page 82). 
 
Ex-Clerics 
A cleric who grossly violates the code of conduct required by his god 
(generally by acting in ways opposed to the god’s alignment or 
purposes) loses all spells and class features, except for armor and 
shield proficiencies and proficiency with simple weapons. He 
cannot thereafter gain levels as a cleric of that god until he atones 
(see the atonement spell description, page 201). 
 
Human Cleric Starting Package 
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC, armor check penalty –4, speed 20 ft., 
30 lb.). 
Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty –2, 10 lb.). 
Weapons: Heavy mace (1d8, crit ×2, 8 lb., one-handed, bludgeon-
ing). 
Light crossbow (1d8, crit 19–20/×2, range inc. 80 ft., 4 lb., pierc-
ing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 3 + Int modifier. 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor 
Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Concentration 4 Con — 
Heal 4 Wis — 
Knowledge (religion) 4 Int — 
Diplomacy 4 Cha — 
Gather Information (cc) 2 Cha — 
Listen (cc) 2 Wis —  
 
Feat: Scribe Scroll. 
Bonus Feat: Alertness. 
Deity/Domains: Pelor/Good and Healing. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Case with 10 crossbow bolts. Wooden holy 
symbol (sun disc of Pelor). Three torches. 
Gold: 1d4 gp. 
 
DRUID 
The fury of a storm, the gentle strength of the morning sun, the 
cunning of the fox, the power of the bear—all these and more are at 
the druid’s command. The druid however, claims no mastery over 
nature. That claim, she says, is the empty boast of a city dweller. The 
druid gains her power not by ruling nature but by being at one with 
it. To trespassers in a druid’s sacred grove, and to those who feel her 
wrath, the distinction is overly fine. 
Adventures: Druids adventure to gain knowledge (especially 
about animals and plants unfamiliar to them) and power. Some-
times, their superiors call on their services. Druids may also bring 
their power to bear against those who threaten what they love, 
which more often includes ancient stands of trees or trackless 
mountains than people. While druids accept that which is horrific 
or cruel in nature, they hate that which is unnatural, including 
aberrations (such as beholders and carrion crawlers) and undead 
(such as zombies and vampires). Druids sometimes lead raids against 
such creatures, especially when they encroach on the druids’ 
territory. 
Characteristics: Druids cast divine spells much the same way 
clerics do, though most get their spells from the power of nature 
rather than from deities. Their spells are oriented toward nature and 
animals. In addition to spells, druids gain an increasing array of 
magical powers, including the ability to take the shapes of animals, 
as they advance in level. 
The armor of a druid are restricted by traditional oaths to the 
items noted in Weapon and Armor proficiency (below),All other 
armor is prohibited. Though a druid could learn to wear full plate, 
putting it on would violate her oath and suppress her druidic 
powers. 
Druids avoid carrying much worked metal with them because it 
interferes with the pure and primal nature that they attempt to 
embody. 
Alignment: Druids, in keeping with nature’s ultimate indiffer-
ence, must maintain at least some measure of dispassion. As such, 
they must be neutral on at least one alignment axis (chaotic–lawful 
or good–evil), if not both. Just as nature encompasses such 
dichotomies as life and death, beauty and horror, and peace and 
violence, so two druids can manifest different or even opposite 
alignments (neutral good and neutral evil, for instance) and still be 
part of the druidic tradition. 
Religion: A druid reveres nature above  all. She gains her magical 
power either from the force of nature itself or from a nature deity. 
The typical druid pursues a mystic spirituality of transcendent union 
with nature rather than devoting herself to a divine entity. Still, 
some druids revere or at least respect either Obad-Hai (god of 
nature) or Ehlonna (goddess of the woodlands). 
Background: Though their organization is invisible to most 
outsiders, who consider druids to be loners, druids are actually part 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 