 
 34 
of a society that spans the land, ignoring political borders. A 
prospective druid is inducted into this society through secret rituals, 
including tests that not all survive. Only after achieving some level 
of competence is the druid allowed to strike out on her own. 
All druids are nominally members of this druidic society, though 
some individuals are so isolated that they have never seen any high-
ranking members of the society or participated in druidic 
gatherings. All druids recognize each other as brothers and sisters. 
Like true creatures of the wilderness, however, druids sometimes 
compete with or even prey on each other. 
A druid may be expected to perform services for 
higher-ranking druids, though proper payment is 
tendered for such assignments. Likewise, a 
lower-ranking druid may appeal for aid from 
her higher-ranking comrades in exchange for a 
fair price in coin or service. 
Druids may live in small towns, but they always 
spend a good portion of their time in wild 
areas. Even large cities surrounded by 
cultivated land as far as the eye can see often 
have druid groves nearby—small, wild 
refuges where druids live and which they 
protect fiercely. Near coastal cities, such 
refuges may be nearby islands, where the 
druids can find the isolation they need. 
Races: Elves and gnomes have an 
affinity for natural lands and often 
become druids. Humans and half-
elves also frequently adopt this path, 
and druids are particularly common 
among savage humans. Dwarves, 
halflings, and half-orcs are 
rarely druids. 
Few from among the 
brutal humanoids are 
inducted into drui-
dic society, though 
gnolls have a fair 
contingent of evil 
druids among them. 
Gnoll druids are 
accepted, though perhaps not 
welcomed, by druids of other races. 
Other Classes: The druid shares with rangers and 
many barbarians a reverence for nature and a familiarity with 
natural lands. She doesn’t much understand the urban mannerism 
typical of a rogue, and she finds arcane magic disruptive and slightly 
distasteful.  The typical druid also dislikes the paladin’s devotion to 
abstract ideals instead of “the real world.” Druids, however, are 
nothing if not accepting of diversity, and they take little offense at 
other characters, even those very different from them. 
Role: The druid enjoys extraordinary versatility. Though she 
lacks the sheer healing power of the cleric, she makes up for it with 
additional offensive power, thanks to her spell selection and wild 
shape ability. A druid back up by another secondary healer (such as a 
paladin) can prove extremely valuable to a group of adventurers. Her 
animal companion also provides valuable melee combat support. 
 
GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Druids have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Wisdom determines how powerful a spell a druid can 
cast, how many spells she can cast per day, and how hard those 
spells are to resist. To cast a spell, a druid must have a Wisdom score 
of 10 + the spell’s level. A druid gets bonus spells based on Wisdom. 
The Difficulty Class of a saving throw against a druid’s spell is 10 + 
the spell’s level + the druid’s Wisdom modifier.  
Since a druid wears light or medium armor, a high Dexterity 
score greatly improves her defensive ability. 
Alignment: Neutral good, lawful neutral, neutral, chaotic 
neutral, or neutral evil. 
Hit Die: d8. 
 
Class Skills 
The druid’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), 
Diplomacy (Cha), Handle Animal 
(Cha), Heal (Wis), Knowledge 
(nature) (Int), Listen (Wis), 
Profession (Wis), Ride (Dex), Spellcraft 
(Int), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis), and Swim 
(Str).  See Chapter 4: Skills for skill 
descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level:  (4 + Int 
modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level:  4 
+ Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the 
druid. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  
Druids are proficient with the 
following weapons: club, dagger, 
dart, quarterstaff, scimitar, sickle, 
shortspear, sling, and spear. 
They are also proficient with all 
natural attacks (claw, bite, and so forth) 
of any form they assume with wild shape (see 
below). 
Druids are proficient with light and 
medium armor but are prohibited from wearing 
metal armor; thus, they may wear only padded, 
leather, or hide armor. (A druid may also 
wear wooden armor that has been 
altered by the ironwood spell so that it 
functions as though it were steel. See the 
ironwood spell description, page 246) Druids are 
proficient with shields (except tower shields) but must use only 
wooden ones. 
A druid who wears prohibited armor or carries a prohibited shield 
is unable to cast druid spells or use any of her supernatural or spell-
like class abilities while doing so and for 24 hours thereafter. 
Spells: A druid casts divine spells (the same type of spells 
available to the cleric, paladin, and ranger), which are drawn from 
the druid spell list (page 189). Her alignment may restrict her from 
casting certain spells opposed to her moral or ethical beliefs; see 
Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells, below. A druid must choose 
and prepare her spells in advance (see below). 
To prepare or cast a spell, the druid must have a Wisdom score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 10 for 0-level spells, Wis 11 
for 1st-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a saving 
throw against a druid’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the druid’s 
Wisdom modifier. 
Like other spellcasters, a druid can cast only a certain number of 
spells of each spell level per day. Her base daily spell allotment is 
given on Table 3–8: The Druid. In addition, she receives bonus 
spells per day if she has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1–1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page8). She does not have access to any 
domain spells or granted powers, as a cleric does. 
Illus. by S. Wood 
Vadania
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 