 
 37
Resist Nature’s Lure (Ex):  Starting at 4th level, a druid gains a 
+4 bonus on saving throws against the spell-like abilities of fey (such 
as dryads, pixies, and sprites). 
Wild Shape (Su):  At 5th level, a druid gains the ability to turn 
herself into any Small or Medium animal and back again once per 
day. Her options for new forms include all creatures with the animal 
type (see the Monster Manual ). This ability functions like the p oly-
morph spell, except as noted here. The effect lasts for 1 hour per 
druid level, or until she changes back. Changing form (to animal or 
back) is a standard action and doesn’t provoke an attack of 
opportunity. 
The form chosen must be that of an animal the druid is familiar 
with. For example, a druid who has never been outside a temperate 
forest could not become a polar bear. 
A druid loses her ability to speak while in animal form because 
she is limited to the sounds that a normal, untrained animal can 
make, but she can communicate normally with other animals of the 
same general grouping as her new form. (The normal sound a wild 
parrot makes is a squawk, so changing to this form does not permit 
speech.) 
A druid can use this ability more times per day at 6th, 7th, 10th, 
14th, and 18th level, as noted on Table 3–8: The Druid. In addition, 
she gains the ability to take the shape of a Large animal at 8th level, a 
Tiny animal at 11th level, and a Huge animal at 15th level. The new 
form’s Hit Dice can’t exceed the character’s druid level. For instance, 
a druid can’t take the form of a dire bear (a Large creature that always 
has at least 12 HD) until 12th level, even though she can begin 
taking Large forms at 8th level. 
At 12th level, a druid becomes able to use wild shape to change 
into a plant creature, such as a shambling mound, with the 
same size restrictions as for animal forms. (A druid can’t use 
this ability to take the form of a plant that isn’t a creature, 
such as a tree or a rose bush.) 
At 16th level, a druid becomes able to use wild shape 
to change into a Small, Medium, or Large elemental 
(air, earth, fire, or water) once per day. These 
elemental forms are in addition to her normal wild 
shape usage. In addition to the normal effects of 
wild shape, the druid gains all the elemental’s 
extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like abilities. 
She also gains the elemental’s feats for as long as 
she maintains the wild shape, but she retains her 
own creature type (humanoid, in most cases). 
At 18th level, a druid becomes able to assume 
elemental form twice per day, and at 20th level 
she can do so three times per day. At 20th 
level, a druid may use this wild shape ability 
to change into a Huge elemental. 
Venom Immunity (Ex):  At 9th level, a 
druid gains immunity to all poisons.  
A Thousand Faces (Su):  At 13th level, a 
druid gains the ability to change 
her appearance at will, as if using 
the alter self  spell (page 197), but 
only while in her normal form. 
Timeless Body (Ex):  After 
attaining 15th level, a druid no 
longer takes ability score 
penalties for aging (see Table 
6–5: Aging Effects, page 109) and 
cannot be magically aged. Any penalties 
she may have already incurred, however, remain in place. Bonuses 
still accrue, and the druid still dies of old age when her time is up. 
 
Ex-Druids 
A druid who ceases to revere nature, changes to a prohibited 
alignment, or teaches the Druidic language to a nondruid loses all 
spells and druid abilities (including her animal companion, but not 
including weapon, armor, and shield proficiencies). She cannot 
thereafter gain levels as a druid until she atones (see the atonement 
spell description, page 201). 
 
Half-Elf Druid Starting Package 
Armor: Hide (+3 AC, armor check penalty –3, speed 20 ft., 25 lb.). 
Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty –2, 10 lb.). 
Weapons: Scimitar (1d6, crit 18–20/×2, 4 lb., one-handed, 
slashing). 
Club (oaken cudgel): (1d6, crit ×2, 10 ft., 3 lb., one-handed, 
bludgeoning). 
Sling (1d4, crit ×2, rang inc. 50 ft., 0 lb., Medium, Bludgeoning). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 4 + Int modifier. 
 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Concentration 4 Con — 
Survival 4 Wis — 
Heal 4 Wis — 
Handle Animal 4 Cha — 
Knowledge (nature) 4 Int — 
Listen 4 Wis — 
Spot 4 Wis —  
 
Feat: Scribe Scroll. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Pouch with 10 sling bullets. Holly and 
mistletoe. Three torches. 
Animal Companion: Wolf (see the Monster 
Manual for details). 
Gold: 1d6 gp. 
 
FIGHTER 
The questing knight, the conquering 
overlord, the king’s champion, the 
elite foot soldier, the hardened 
mercenary, and the bandit king—
all are fighters. Fighters can be 
stalwart defenders of those in 
need, cruel marauders, or gutsy 
adventurers. Some are among 
the land’s best souls, willing to 
face death for the greater good. 
Others are among the worst, with 
no qualms about killing for private 
gain, or even for sport. Fighters 
who are not actively adventuring 
may be soldiers, guards, 
bodyguards, champions, or 
criminal enforcers. An adven-
turing fighter might call himself a warrior, a 
mercenary, a thug, or simply an adventurer. 
Adventures: Most fighters see adven-
tures, raids, and dangerous missions as 
their job. Some have patrons who pay 
them regularly. Others prefer to live 
like prospectors, taking great risks in 
hopes of the big haul. Some fighters are more 
civic-minded and use their combat skills to protect endangered 
people who cannot defend themselves. Whatever their initial 
motivations, however, fighters often wind up living for the thrill of 
combat and adventure. 
Characteristics: Of all classes, fighters have the best all-around 
fighting capabilities (hence the name). Fighters are familiar with all 
the standard weapons and armors. In addition to general fighting 
Tordek 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 