 
 
38 
prowess, each fighter develops particular specialties of his own. A 
given fighter may be especially capable with certain weapons, 
another might be trained to execute specific fancy maneuvers. As 
fighters gain experience, they get more opportunities to develop 
their fighting skills. Thanks to their focus on combat maneuvers, 
they can master the most difficult ones relatively quickly. 
Alignment: Fighters may be of any alignment. Good fighters are 
often crusading types who seek out and fight evil. Lawful fighters 
may be champions who protect the land and its people. Chaotic 
fighters may be wandering mercenaries. Evil fighters tend to be 
bullies and petty villains who simply take what they want by 
brute force. 
Religion: Fighters often worship Heironeous (god of valor), 
Kord (god of strength), St. Cuthbert (god of retribution), 
Hextor (god of tyranny), or Erythnul (god of slaughter). 
A fighter may style himself as a crusader in the 
service of his god, or he may just want someone to 
pray to before putting his life on the line yet 
another time. 
Background: Fighters come to their 
profession in many ways. Most have had 
formal training in a noble’s army or at 
least in the local militia. Some have 
trained in formal academies. Others are 
self-taught—unpolished but well 
tested. A fighter may have taken up the 
sword as a way to escape 
the limits of life on 
the farm, or he may be 
following a proud family 
tradition. Fighters share no 
special identity. They do not see 
themselves as a group or 
brotherhood. Those who hail from a 
particular academy, mercenary com-
pany, or lord’s regiment, however, share a 
certain camaraderie. 
Races: Human fighters are usually 
veterans of some military service, typically from 
more mundane parents. Dwarf fighters are 
commonly former members of the well-trained 
strike teams that protect the underground 
dwarven kingdoms. They are typically members 
of warrior families that can trace their lineages 
back for millennia, and they may have rivalries or 
alliances with other dwarf fighters of a different 
lineage. Elf fighters are typically skilled with the 
longsword. They are proud of their ability at 
swordplay and eager to demonstrate or test it. 
Half-orc fighters are often self-
taught outcasts who have achieved 
enough skill to earn recognition and 
something akin to respect. Gnome and 
halfling fighters usually stay in their own communities as part of the 
area militia rather than adventuring. Half-elves are rarely fighters, 
but they may take up swordplay in honor of the elven tradition. 
Among the brutal humanoids, few can manage the discipline it 
takes to be a true fighter. The militaristic hobgoblins, however, 
produce quite a number of strong and skilled fighters. 
Other Classes: The fighter excels in a straight fight, but he relies 
on others for magical support, healing, and scouting. On a team, it is 
his job to man the front lines, protect the other party members, and 
bring the tough opponents down. Fighters might not understand 
the arcane ways of wizards or share the faith of clerics, but they 
recognize the value of teamwork. 
Role: In most adventuring parties, the fighter serves as a melee 
combatant, charging into the fray while his comrades support him 
with spells, ranged attacks, and other effects. Fighters who favor 
ranged combat can prove very deadly, though without other melee 
support, they can find themselves in front-line combat more often 
than they might prefer. 
 
GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Fighters have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Strength is especially important for fighters because it 
improves their melee attack and damage rolls. Constitution is 
important for giving fighters lots of hit points, which they need in 
their many battles. Dexterity is important for fighters who want 
to be good archers or who want access to certain Dexterity-
oriented feats, but the heavy armor that fighters usually wear 
reduces the benefit of a 
very high Dexterity 
score. 
Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d10. 
 
Class Skills 
The fighter’s class skills (and 
the key ability for each skill) 
are Climb (Str), Craft (Int), 
Handle Animal (Cha), 
Intimidate (Cha), Jump (Str), 
Ride (Dex), and Swim (Str). See 
Chapter 4: Skills for skill 
descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level:  (2 + Int 
modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional 
Level: 2 + Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the 
fighter. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  A 
fighter is proficient with all simple and 
martial weapons and with all armor (heavy, 
medium, and light) and shields (including tower 
shields). 
Bonus Feats:  At 1st level, a fighter gets a bonus 
combat-oriented feat in addition to the feat that 
any 1st-level character gets and the bonus feat 
granted to a human character. The fighter 
gains an additional bonus feat at 2nd level 
and every two fighter levels thereafter 
(4th, 6th, 8th, 10th, 12th, 14th, 16th, 
18th, and 20th). These bonus feats 
must be drawn from the feats noted as fighter bonus 
feats on Table 5–1: Feats (page 90). A fighter must still 
meet all prerequisites for a bonus feat, including ability 
score and base attack bonus minimums. (See Chapter 5: 
Feats for descriptions of feats and their prerequisites.) 
These bonus feats are in addition to the feat that a character of any 
class gets from advancing levels (see Table 3–2: Experience and 
Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). A fighter is not limited to the 
list of fighter bonus feats when choosing these feats. 
 
Dwarf Fighter Starting Package 
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC, armor check penalty –4, speed 20 ft., 
30 lb.). 
Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty –2, 10 lb.) 
Weapons: Dwarven waraxe (1d10, crit ×3, 8 lb., one-handed, 
slashing). 
Shortbow (1d6, crit ×3, range inc. 60 ft., 2 lb., piercing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 2 + Int modifier. 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
Regdar
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 