 
 41
desired. For example, at 6th level, the monk Ember could make one 
attack with her unarmed strike at an attack bonus of +3 and one 
attack with a special monk weapon at an attack bonus of +3. When 
using weapons as part of a flurry of blows, a monk applies her 
Strength bonus (not Str bonus ×  1-1/2 or × 1/2) to her damage rolls 
for all successful attacks, whether she wields a weapon in one or 
both hands. The monk can’t use any weapon other than a special 
monk weapon as part of a flurry of blows. 
In the case of the quarterstaff, each end counts as a separate 
weapon for the purpose of using the flurry of blows ability. Even 
though the quarterstaff requires two hands to use, a monk may still 
intersperse unarmed strikes with quarterstaff strikes, assuming 
that she has enough attacks in her flurry of blows 
routine to do so. For example, an 8th-level monk 
could make two attacks 
with the quarterstaff (one 
with each end) at a +5 attack 
bonus and one with an 
unarmed strike at a +0 attack 
bonus, or she could attack with 
one end of the quarterstaff and 
one unarmed strike each at a +5 
attack bonus, and with the other 
end of the quarterstaff at a +0 
attack bonus, or she could attack 
with one end of the quarterstaff and 
one unarmed strike at a +5 attack 
bonus each, and with the other end of 
the quarterstaff at a +0 attack bonus. 
She cannot, however, wield any other 
weapon at the same time that she uses 
a quarterstaff. 
When a monk reaches 11th level, her 
flurry of blows ability improves. In 
addition to the standard single extra 
attack she gets from flurry of blows, she 
gets a second extra attack at her full 
base attack bonus. 
Unarmed Strike: Monks are highly 
trained in fighting unarmed, giving 
them considerable advantages when 
doing so. At 1st level, a monk gains 
Improved Unarmed Strike as a bonus feat. 
A monk’s attacks may be with either fist 
interchangeably or even from elbows, 
knees, and feet. This means that a monk 
may even make unarmed strikes with her 
hands full. There is no such thing as an off-hand 
attack for a monk striking unarmed. A monk may 
thus apply her full Strength bonus on damage rolls 
for all her unarmed strikes. 
Usually a monk’s unarmed strikes deal lethal damage, but she can 
choose to deal nonlethal damage instead with no penalty on her 
attack roll. She has the same choice to deal lethal or nonlethal 
damage while grappling. 
A monk’s unarmed strike is treated both as a manufactured 
weapon and a natural weapon for the purpose of spells and effects 
that enhance or improve either manufactured weapons or natural 
weapons (such as the magic fang and magic weapon spells). 
A monk also deals more damage with her unarmed strikes than a 
normal person would, as shown on Table 3–10: The Monk. The 
unarmed damage on Table 3–10 is for Medium monks. A Small 
monk deals less damage than the amount given there with her 
unarmed attacks, while a Large monk deals more damage; see Table: 
Small or Large Monk Unarmed Damage. 
Table 3–11: Small or Large Monk Unarmed Damage 
Level Damage (Small Monk) Damage(Large Monk) 
1st–3rd  1d4 1d8 
4th–7th  1d6 2d6 
8th–11th  1d8 2d8 
12th–15th  1d10 3d6 
16th–19th  2d6 3d8 
20th  2d8 4d8  
 
Bonus Feat:  At 1st level, a monk may select either Improved 
Grapple or Stunning Fist as a bonus feat. At 2nd level, she 
may select either Combat Reflexes or Deflect Arrows as a 
bonus feat. At 6th level, she may select either Improved 
Disarm or Improved Trip as a bonus feat. (See Chapter 
5: Feats for descriptions.) A monk need not have any 
of the prerequisites normally required for these 
feats to select them. 
Evasion (Ex):  A monk of 2nd level or higher 
can avoid even magical and unusual attacks with 
great agility. If she makes a successful Reflex 
saving throw against an attack that normally 
deals half damage on a successful save (such 
as a red dragon’s fiery breath or a fireball), she 
instead takes no damage. Evasion can be used 
only if a monk is wearing light armor or no 
armor. A helpless monk (such as one who is 
unconscious or paralysed) does not gain the 
benefit of evasion. 
Fast Movement (Ex):  At 3rd level, a 
monk gains an enhancement bonus to 
her speed, as shown on Table 3–10. 
A monk in armor (even light 
armor) or carrying a medium 
or heavy load loses this 
extra speed. 
Still Mind (Ex):  A monk of 3rd level or 
higher gains a +2 bonus on saving throws 
against spells and effects from the school of 
enchantment, since her meditation and training 
improve her resistance to mind-affecting 
attacks. 
Ki Strike (Su):  At 4th level, a monk’s 
unarmed attacks are empowered with ki. Her 
unarmed attacks are treated as magic weapons 
for the purpose of dealing damage to 
creatures with damage reduction (see 
Damage Reduction, page 291 of the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide ). Ki strike 
improves with the character’s monk 
level. At 10th level, her unarmed attacks are also treated as lawful 
weapons for the purpose of dealing damage to creatures with 
damage reduction. At 16th level, her unarmed attacks are treated as 
adamantine weapons for the purpose of dealing damage to creatures 
with damage reduction and bypassing hardness (see Smashing an 
Object, page 165). 
Slow Fall (Ex): At 4th level or higher, a monk within arm’s reach 
of a wall can use it to slow her descent. When first using this ability, 
she takes damage as if the fall were 20 feet shorter than it actually is. 
The monk’s ability to slow her fall (that is, to reduce the effective 
distance of the fall when next to a wall) improves with her monk 
level until at 20th level she can use a nearby wall to slow her descent 
and fall any distance without harm. See the Special column on Table 
3–10 for details. 
Purity of Body (Ex):  At 5th level, a monk gains control over her 
body’s immune system. She gains immunity to all diseases except 
for supernatural and magical diseases (such as mummy rot and 
lycanthropy). 
Ember 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 