 
 44 
Class Skills 
The paladin’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Handle Animal 
(Cha), Heal (Wis), Knowledge (nobility and royalty) (Int), 
Knowledge (religion) (Int), Profession (Wis), Ride (Dex), and Sense 
Motive (Wis). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (2 + Int modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the paladin. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  Paladins are proficient with 
all simple and martial weapons, with all types of armor (heavy, 
medium, and light), and with shields (except tower shields). 
Aura of Good (Ex): The power of a paladin’s aura of good (see the 
detect good spell) is equal to her paladin level, just like the aura of a 
cleric of a good deity. 
Detect Evil (Sp): At will, a paladin can use detect evil, as the spell. 
Smite Evil (Su):  Once per day, a paladin may attempt to smite 
evil with one normal melee attack. She adds her Charisma bonus (if 
any) to her attack roll and deals 1 extra point of damage per paladin 
level. For example, a 13th-level paladin armed with a longsword 
would deal 1d8+13 points of damage, plus any additional bonuses for 
high Strength or magical affects that would normally apply. If the 
paladin accidentally smites a creature that is not evil, the smite has 
no effect, but the ability is still used up for that day. 
At 5th level, and at every five levels thereafter, the paladin may 
smite evil one additional time per day, as indicated on Table 3–12: 
The Paladin, to a maximum of five times per day at 20th level. 
Divine Grace (Su): At 2nd level, a paladin gains a bonus equal to 
her Charisma bonus (if any) on all saving throws. 
Lay on Hands (Su):  Beginning at 2nd level, a paladin with a 
Charisma score of 12 or higher can heal wounds (her own or those 
of others) by touch. Each day she can heal a total number of hit 
points of damage equal to her paladin level × her Charisma bonus. 
For example, a 7th-level paladin with a 16 Charisma (+3 bonus) can 
heal 21 points of damage per day. A paladin may choose to divide 
her healing among multiple recipients, and she doesn’t have to use it 
all at once. Using lay on hands is a standard action. 
Alternatively, a paladin can use any or all of this healing power to 
deal damage to undead creatures. Using lay on hands in this way 
requires a successful melee touch attack and doesn’t provoke an 
attack of opportunity. The paladin decides how many of her daily 
allotment of points to use as damage after successfully touching an 
undead creature. 
Aura of Courage (Su):  Beginning at 3rd level, a paladin is 
immune to fear (magical or otherwise). Each ally within 10 feet of 
her gains a +4 morale bonus on saving throws against fear effects. 
This ability functions while the paladin is conscious, but not if 
she is unconscious or dead. 
Divine Health (Ex): At 3rd level, a paladin gains immunity to all 
diseases, including supernatural and magical diseases (such as 
mummy rot and lycanthropy). 
Turn Undead (Su):  When a paladin reaches 4th level, she gains 
the supernatural ability to turn undead. She may use this ability a 
number of times per day equal to 3 + her Charisma modifier. She 
turns undead as a cleric of three levels lower would. (See Turn or 
Rebuke Undead, page 159.) 
Spells: Beginning at 4th level, a paladin gains the ability to cast a 
small number of divine spells (the same type of spells available to 
the cleric, druid, and ranger), which are drawn from the paladin 
spell list (page 191). A paladin must choose and prepare her spells in 
advance. 
To prepare or cast a spell, a paladin must have a Wisdom score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 11 for 1st-level spells, Wis 
12 for 2nd-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a saving 
throw against a paladin’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the paladin’s 
Wisdom modifier. 
Like other spellcasters, a paladin can cast only a certain number of 
spells of each spell level per day. Her base daily spell allotment is 
given on Table 3–12: The Paladin. In addition, she receives bonus 
spells per day if she has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1–1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). When Table 3–12 indicates that 
the paladin gets 0 spells per day of a given spell level (for instance, 
1st-level spells for a 4th-level paladin), she gains only the bonus 
spells she would be entitled to based on her Wisdom score for that 
spell level The paladin does not have access to any domain spells or 
granted powers, as a cleric does. 
A paladin prepares and casts spells the way a cleric does, though 
she cannot lose a prepared spell to spontaneously cast a cure spell in 
its place. A paladin may prepare and cast any spell on the paladin 
spell list (page 191), provided that she can cast spells of that level, 
but she must choose which spells to prepare during her daily 
meditation. 
Through 3rd level, a paladin has no caster level. At 4th level and 
higher, her caster level is one-half her paladin level. 
Special Mount  (Sp):  Upon reaching 5th level, a paladin gains the 
service of an unusually intelligent, strong, and loyal steed to serve 
her in her crusade against evil (see the sidebar). This mount is usu-
ally a heavy warhorse (for a Medium paladin) or a warpony (for a 
Small paladin). 
Once per day, as a full-round action, a paladin may magically call 
her mount from the celestial realms in which it resides. The mount 
immediately appears adjacent to the paladin and remains for 2 hours 
per paladin level; it may be dismissed at any time as a free action. 
The mount is the same creature each time it is summoned, though 
the paladin may release a particular mount from service (if it has 
grown too old to join her crusade, for instance). Each time the 
mount is called, it appears in full health, regardless of any damage it 
may have taken previously. The mount also appears wearing or 
carrying any gear it had when it was last dismissed )including 
barding, saddle, saddlebags, and the like). Calling a mount is a 
conjuration (calling) effect. 
Should the paladin’s mount die, it immediately disappears, leav-
ing behind any equipment it was carrying. The paladin may not 
summon another mount for thirty days or until she gains a paladin 
level, whichever comes first, even if the mount is somehow returned 
from the dead. During this thirty-day period, the paladin takes a –1 
penalty on attack and weapon damage rolls. 
Remove Disease  (Sp):  At 6th level, a paladin can produce a remove 
disease effect, as the spell, once per week. She can use this ability one 
additional time per week for every three levels after 6th (twice per 
week at 9th, three times at 12th, and so forth). 
Code of Conduct:  A paladin must be of lawful good alignment 
and loses all class abilities if she ever willingly commits an evil act. 
Additionally, a paladin’s code requires that she respect legitimate 
authority, act with honor (not lying, not cheating, not using poison, 
and so forth), help those in need (provided they do not use the help 
for evil or chaotic ends), and punish those who harm or threaten 
innocents. 
Associates: While she may adventure with characters of any 
good or neutral alignment, a paladin will never knowingly associate 
with evil characters, nor will she continue an association with 
someone who consistently offends her moral code. A paladin may 
accept only henchmen, followers, or cohorts who are lawful good. 
 
Ex-Paladins 
A paladin who ceases to be lawful good, who willfully commits an 
evil act, or who grossly violates the code of conduct loses all paladin 
spells and abilities (including the service of the paladin’s mount, but 
not weapon, armor, and shield proficiencies). She may not progress 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 