 
 50 
GAME RULE INFORMATION 
Rogues have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Dexterity provides extra protection for the lightly 
armored rogue. Dexterity, Intelligence and Wisdom are important 
for many of the rogue’s skills. A high Intelligence score also gives 
the rogue extra skill points, which can be used to expand her 
repertoire. 
Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d6. 
 
Class Skills 
The rogue’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Appraise (Int), Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Craft 
(Int), Decipher Script (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Disable 
Device (Int), Disguise (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Forgery 
(Int), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Intimidate 
(Cha), Jump (Str), Knowledge (local) (Int), Listen (Wis), 
Move Silently (Dex), Open Lock (Dex), Perform (Cha), 
Profession (Wis), Search (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), 
Sleight of Hand (Dex), Spot (Wis), Swim (Str), 
Tumble (Dex), Use Magic Device (Cha), and 
Use Rope (Dex). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill 
descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level:  (8 + 
Int modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Addi-
tional Level: 8 + Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the 
rogue. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Rogues 
are proficient with all simple 
weapons, plus the hand 
crossbow, rapier, shortbow, 
and short sword. Rogues are 
proficient with light armor, 
but not with shields. 
Sneak Attack: If a rogue can 
catch an opponent when he is 
unable to defend himself 
effectively from her attack, 
she can strike a vital spot for extra damage. Basically, 
the rogue’s attack deals extra damage any time her target 
would be denied a Dexterity bonus to AC (whether the target 
actually has a Dexterity bonus or not), or when the rogue flanks her 
target. This extra damage is 1d6 at 1st level, and it increases by 1d6 
every two rogue levels thereafter. Should the rogue score a critical 
hit with a sneak attack, this extra damage is not multiplied. (See 
Table 8–5: Attack Roll Modifiers and Table 8–6: Armor Class 
Modifiers, page 151, for combat situations in which the rogue flanks 
an opponent or the opponent loses his Dexterity bonus to AC.) 
Ranged attacks can count as sneak attacks only if the target is 
within 30 feet. A rogue can’t strike with deadly accuracy from 
beyond that range. 
With a sap (blackjack) or an unarmed strike, a rogue can make a 
sneak attack that deals nonlethal damage instead of lethal damage. 
She cannot use a weapon that deals lethal damage to deal nonlethal 
damage in a sneak attack, not even with the usual –4 penalty, 
because she must make optimal use of her weapon in order to 
execute a sneak attack. (See Nonlethal Damage, page 146.) 
A rogue can sneak attack only living creatures with discernible 
anatomies—undead, constructs, oozes, plants, and incorporeal 
creatures lack vital areas to attack. Any creature that is immune to 
critical hits is not vulnerable to sneak attacks. The rogue must be 
able to see the target well enough to pick out a vital spot and must be 
able to reach such a spot. A rogue cannot sneak attack while striking 
a creature with concealment (see page 152) or striking the limbs of a 
creature whose vitals are beyond reach. 
Trapfinding: Rogues (and only rogues) can use the Search skill 
to locate traps when the task has a Difficulty Class higher than 20. 
Finding a nonmagical trap has a DC of at least 20, or higher if it is 
well hidden. Finding a magic trap has a DC of 25 + the level of the 
spell used to create it. 
Rogues (and only rogues) can use the Disable Device skill to 
disarm magic traps. A magic trap generally has a DC of 25 + the level 
of the spell used to create it. 
A rogue who beats a trap’s DC by 10 or more 
with a Disable Device check can study a 
trap, figure out how it works, and bypass it 
(with her party) without disarming it. 
Evasion (Ex):  At 2nd level and higher, a 
rogue can avoid even magical and unusual 
attacks with great agility. If she makes a 
successful Reflex saving throw against an 
attack that normally deals half damage on 
a successful save (such as a red dragon’s 
fiery breath or a fireball), she 
instead takes no damage. Evasion 
can be used only if the rogue is 
wearing light armor or no 
armor. A helpless rogue (such as 
one who is unconscious or 
paralysed) does not gain the 
benefit of evasion. 
Trap Sense (Ex): At 3rd level, a rogue 
gains an intuitive sense that alerts her to 
danger from traps, giving her a +1 
bonus on Reflex saves made to 
avoid traps and a +1 dodge bonus to 
AC against attacks made by traps. 
These bonuses rise to +2 when the 
rogue reaches 6th level, to +3 when 
she reaches 9th level, to +4 when 
she reaches 12th level, to +5 at 
15th, and to +6 at 18th level. 
Trap sense bonuses gained from 
multiple classes stack. 
Uncanny Dodge (Ex):  Starting at 4th level, a 
rogue can react to danger before her senses would 
normally allow her to do so. She retains her Dexterity 
bonus to AC (if any) even if she is caught flat-footed or struck by an 
invisible attacker. However, she still loses her Dexterity bonus to 
AC if immobilized. 
If a rogue already has uncanny dodge from a different class (a 
rogue with at least two levels of barbarian, for example), she auto-
matically gains improved uncanny dodge (see below) instead. 
Improved Uncanny Dodge (Ex):  A rogue of 8th level or higher 
can no longer be flanked; she can react to opponents on opposite 
sides of her as easily as she can react to a single attacker. This 
defense denies another rogue the ability to sneak attack the 
character by flanking her, unless the attacker has at least four more 
rogue levels than the target does. 
If a character already has uncanny dodge (see above) from a 
second class, the character automatically gains improved uncanny 
dodge instead, and the levels from the classes that grant uncanny 
dodge stack to determine the minimum rogue level required to 
flank the character. 
Special Abilities:  On attaining 10th level, and at every three 
levels thereafter (13th, 16th, and 19th), a rogue gains a special ability 
Illus. by J. Foster 
Lidda 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 