 
 51
of her choice from among the following options. 
Crippling Strike (Ex):  A rogue with this ability can sneak attack 
opponents with such precision that her blows weaken and hamper 
them. An opponent damaged by one of her sneak attacks also takes 2 
points of Strength damage. Ability points lost to damage return on 
their own at the rate of 1 point per day for each damaged ability. 
Defensive Roll (Ex):  The rogue can roll with a potentially lethal 
blow to take less damage from it than she otherwise would. Once 
per day, when she would be reduced to 0 or fewer hit points by 
damage in combat (from a weapon or other blow, not a spell or spe-
cial ability), the rogue can attempt to roll with the damage. To use 
this ability, the rogue must attempt a Reflex saving throw (DC = 
damage dealt). If the save succeeds, she takes only half damage from 
the blow; if it fails, she takes full damage. She must be aware of the 
attack and able to react to it in order to execute her defensive roll—
if she is denied her Dexterity bonus to AC, she can’t use this ability. 
Since this effect would not normally allow a character to make a 
Reflex save for half damage, the rogue’s evasion ability does not 
apply to the defensive roll. 
Improved Evasion (Ex):  This ability works like evasion, except 
that while the rogue still takes no damage on a successful Reflex 
saving throw against attacks such as a dragon’s breath weapon 
or a fireball, henceforth she henceforth takes only half 
damage on a failed save. A helpless rogue (such as one who 
is unconscious or paralysed) does not gain the benefit of 
improved evasion. 
Opportunist (Ex): Once per round, the rogue 
can make an attack of opportunity against 
an opponent who has just been struck for 
damage in melee by another character. 
This attack counts as the rogue’s attack 
of opportunity for that round. Even a 
rogue with the Combat Reflexes feat 
can’t use the opportunist ability more 
than once per round. 
Skill Mastery:  The rogue becomes so 
certain in the use of certain skills that 
she can use them reliably even under 
adverse conditions. Upon gaining this 
ability, she selects a number of skills 
equal to 3 + her Intelligence modifier. 
When making a skill check with one 
of these skills, she may take 10 even 
if stress and distractions would 
normally prevent her from doing 
so. A rogue may gain this special 
ability multiple times, selecting 
additional skills for it to apply 
to each time. 
Slippery Mind (Ex):  This 
ability represents the rogue’s 
ability to wriggle free from 
magical effects that would 
otherwise control or compel her. If a rogue with slippery 
mind is affected by an enchantment spell or effect and 
fails her saving throw, she can attempt it again 1 round 
later at the same DC. She gets only this one extra chance 
to succeed on her saving throw. 
Feat: A rogue may gain a bonus feat in place of a 
special ability. 
 
Halfling Rogue Starting Package 
Armor: Leather (+2 AC, speed 20 ft., 7-1/2 lb.). 
Weapons: Short sword (1d4, crit 19–20/×2, 1 lb., light, piercing). 
Light crossbow (1d6, crit 19–20/×2, range inc. 80 ft., 2 lb., 
piercing). 
Dagger (1d3, crit 19–20/×2, range inc. 10 ft., 1/2 lb., light, 
piercing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 8 + Int modifier. 
 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Move Silently 4 Dex 0 
Hide 4 Dex 0 
Spot 4 Wis — 
Listen 4 Wis — 
Search 4 Int — 
Disable Device 4 Int — 
Open Lock 4 Dex — 
Climb 4 Str 0 
Use Magic Device 4 Cha — 
Sleight of Hand 4 Dex 0 
Decipher Script 4 Int — 
Bluff 4 Cha — 
Intimidate 4 Cha —  
 
Feat: Improved Initiative. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Thieves’ tools. Hooded lantern and three 
pints of oil. Case with 10 crossbow bolts. 
Gold: 4d4 gp. 
 
SORCERER 
Sorcerers create magic the 
way a poet creates poems, with 
inborn talent honed by 
practice. They have no books, no 
mentors, no theories—just raw 
power that they direct at will. 
Some sorcerers claim that the blood 
of dragons courses through their veins. 
That claim may even be true in some 
cases—it is common knowledge that certain 
powerful dragons can take humanoid form and 
even have humanoid lovers, and it’s difficult 
to prove that a given sorcerer does not have 
a dragon ancestor. It’s true that sorcerers 
often have striking good looks, usually 
with a touch of the exotic that hints 
at an unusual heritage. Others 
hold that the claim is either an 
unsubstantiated boast on the 
part of certain sorcerers or 
envious gossip on the 
part of those who lack 
the sorcerer’s gift. 
Adventures: The 
typical sorcerer adventures in order to 
improve his abilities. Only by testing 
his limits can he expand them. A 
sorcerer’s power is inborn—part of 
his soul. Developing this power is a quest 
in itself for many sorcerers, regardless of how 
they wish to use their power. 
Some good sorcerers are driven by the 
need to prove themselves. Marked as 
different by their power, they seek to win 
a place in society and to prove themselves to others. Evil sorcerers, 
however, also feel themselves set apart from others—apart and 
above. They adventure to gain power over those they look down 
upon. 
Hennet 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 