 
 56 
Half-elf wizards feel both the elf’s attraction to magic and the 
human’s drive to conquer and understand. Some of the most pow-
erful wizards are half-elves. 
Dwarf and halfling wizards are rare because their societies don’t 
encourage the study of magic. Half-orc wizards are rare because few 
half-orcs have the brains necessary for wizardry. 
Drow (evil, subterranean elves) often take up wizardry, 
but wizards are quite rare among the savage humanoids. 
Other Classes:  Wizards prefer to work with 
members of other classes. They love to cast their 
spells from behind strong fighters, to “magic up” 
rogues and send them out to scout, and to rely on 
the divine healing of clerics. They may find 
members of certain classes (such as sorcerers, 
rogues, and bards) to be not quite serious 
enough, but they’re not judgmental. 
Role: The wizard’s role depends somewhat on 
her spell selection, but most wizards share certain 
similarities in function. They are among the most 
offensively minded of the spellcasting classes, with a 
broad range of options available for neutralizing 
enemies. Some wizards provide great support to 
their comrades by way of their spells, while others 
may focus on divination or other facets of 
wizardry. 
 
GAME RULE 
INFORMATION 
Wizards have the following game 
statistics. 
Abilities: Intelligence deter-
mines how powerful a spell a 
wizard can cast, how many spells 
she can cast, and how hard 
those spells are to resist (see Spells, below). A 
high Dexterity score is helpful for a wizard, who 
typically wears little or no armor, because it 
provides her with a bonus to Armor Class. A 
good Constitution score gives a wizard extra 
hit points, a resource that she is otherwise 
very low on. 
Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d4. 
 
Class Skills 
The wizard’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Knowledge 
(all skills, taken individually) (Int), Profession (Wis), and Spellcraft 
(Int). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill 
descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level:  (2 + Int 
modifier) × 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional 
Level: 2 + Int modifier. 
 
Class Features 
All of the following are class features 
of the wizard. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:  
Wizards are proficient with the club, 
dagger, heavy crossbow, light crossbow, 
and quarterstaff, but not with any type of 
armor or shield. Armor of any type 
interferes with a wizard’s movements, 
which can cause her spells with somatic 
components to fail. 
Spells: A wizard casts arcane spells (the 
same type of spells available to sorcerers 
and bards), which are drawn from the sor-
cerer/wizard spell list (page 192). A wizard 
must choose and prepare her spells ahead 
of time (see below). 
To learn, prepare, or cast a spell, the 
wizard must have an Intelligence score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Int 10 for 
0-level spells, Int 11 for 1st-level spells, and 
so forth). The Difficulty Class for 
a saving throw against a wizard’s 
spell is 10 + the spell level + the 
wizard’s Intelligence modifier. 
Like other spellcasters, a wizard 
can cast only a certain number of 
spells of each spell level per day. 
Her base daily spell allotment 
is given on Table 3–18: The 
Wizard. In addition, she 
receives bonus spells per day if she 
has a high Intelligence score (see Table 1–1: 
Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). 
ARCANE SPELLS AND ARMOR 
Wizards and sorcerers do not know how to wear armor effectively. I f
desired, they can wear armor anyway (though they’ll be clumsy in it), or
they can gain training in the proper use of armor (with the various Armor
Proficiency feats—light, medium, and heavy—and the Shield Proficiency
feat), or they can multiclass to add a class that grants them armor
proficiency (see Multiclass Characters later in this chapter). Even if a 
wizard or sorcerer is wearing armor with which he or she is proficient,
however, it might still interfere with spellcasting. 
Most characters have a difficult time casting arcane spells while
wearing armor or carrying shields (see Arcane Spell Failure, page 122).
The armor restricts the complicated gestures that a wizards or sorcerer
must make while casting any spell that has a somatic component (most
do). To find the arcane spell failure chance for a wizard or sorcerer
wearing a certain type of armor, see Table 7–6: Armor and Shields (page
123). 
By contrast, bards not only know how to wear light armor effectively, 
but they can also ignore the arcane spell failure chance for such armor. 
However, they too wear heavier armor ineffectively and must either learn 
to wear heavier armor via the appropriate Armor Proficiency feat 
(medium or heavy) or add a class (such as fighter) that grants them such 
proficiency as a class feature. A bard wearing armor heavier than light or 
using any type of shield incurs the normal arcane spell failure chance, 
even if he becomes proficient with that armor. 
If a spell doesn’t have a somatic component, an arcane spellcaster can 
cast it with no problem while wearing armor. Such spells can also be cast 
even if the caster’s hands are bound or if he or she is grappling 
(although Concentration checks still apply normally). Also, the 
metamagic feat Still Spell allows a spellcaster to prepare or cast a spell at 
one spell level higher than normal without the somatic component. This 
also provides a way to cast a spell while wearing armor without risking 
arcane spell failure. See Chapter 5: Feats for more about metamagic feats 
such as Still S
pell.
Mialee 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 