 
 57
Unlike a bard or sorcerer, a wizard 
may know any number of spells (see 
Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook, 
page 179). She must choose and 
prepare her spells ahead of time by 
getting a good night’s sleep and spending 
1 hour studying her spellbook. While 
studying, the wizard decides which spells 
to prepare (see Preparing Wizard Spells, 
page 177). 
Bonus Languages:  A wizard may 
substitute Draconic for one of the bonus 
languages available to the character because 
of her race (see Chapter 2: Races). Many 
ancient tomes of magic are written in 
Draconic, and apprentice wizards often 
learn it as part of their studies. 
Familiar: A wizard can obtain a familiar in 
exactly the same manner as a sorcerer can. See the 
sorcerer description and the accompanying 
Familiars sidebar for details. 
Scribe Scroll:  At 1st level, a wizard gains 
Scribe Scroll as a bonus feat. This feats enables 
her to create magic schools (see Scribe Scroll, page 99, and 
Creating Magic Items, page 282 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide). 
Bonus Feats:  At 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th 
level, a wizard gains a bonus feat. At each 
such opportunity, she can choose a 
metamagic feat, an item creation feat, or 
Spell Mastery. The wizard must still 
meet all prerequisites for a bonus feat, 
including caster level minimums. (See 
Chapter 5 for descriptions of feats and 
their prerequisites.) 
These bonus feats are in addition to 
the feat that a character of any class gets 
every three levels (as given on Table 
3–2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). The wizard 
is not limited to the categories of item creation feats, metamagic 
feats, or Spell Mastery when choosing these feats. 
Spellbooks: A wizard must study her spellbook 
each day to prepare her spells (see Preparing Wizard 
Spells, page 177). She cannot prepare any spell not 
recorded in her spellbook, except for read magic, which all 
wizards can prepare from memory. 
A wizard begins play with a spellbook 
containing all 0-level wizard spells (except those 
from her prohibited school or schools, if any; 
see School Specialization, page 57) plus three 
1st-level spells of your choice. For each 
point of Intelligence bonus the wizard has 
(see Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers and 
Bonus Spells, page 8), the spellbook 
holds one additional 1st-level spell 
of your choice. At each new 
wizard level, she gains two new 
spells of any spell level or levels that 
she can cast (based on her new 
wizard level) for her spellbook. For 
example, when a wizard attains 5th 
level, she can cast 3rd-level spells. 
At this point, she can add two new 
3rd-level spells to her spellbook, or one 
2nd-level spell and one 3rd-level 
spell, or any combination of two 
spells between 1st and 3rd level. At 
any time, a wizard can also add 
spells found in other wizards’ 
spellbooks to her own (see Adding 
Spells to a Wizard’s Spellbook, page 
178). 
 
 
 
 
SCHOOL SPECIALIZATION 
A school is one of eight groupings of spells, each defined by a common
theme, such as illusion or necromancy. If desired, a wizard may
specialize in one school of magic (see below). Specialization allows a
wizard to cast extra spells from her chosen school, but she then never
learns to cast spells from some other schools. Essentially, the wizard
gains exceptional mastery over a single school by neglecting the study o
f
other schools. 
A specialist wizard can prepare one additional spell of her specialty
school per spell level each day. She also gains a +2 bonus on Spellcraft 
checks to learn the spells of her chosen school (see Adding Spells to a
Wizard’s Spellbook, page 178). 
The wizard must choose whether to specialize and, if she does so,
choose her specialty at 1st level. At this time, she must also give up two
other schools of magic (unless she chooses to specialize in divination;
see below), which become her prohibited schools. For instance, if she
chooses to specialize in con
juration, she might decide to give up
enchantment and necromancy, or evocation and transmutation. A wizard
can never give up divination to fulfill this requirement. Spells of the
prohibited school or schools are not available to the wizard, and she
can’t even cast such spells from scrolls or fire them from wands. She
may not change either her specialization or her prohibited schools later.
The eight schools of arcane magic are ab
juration, con juration,
divination, enchantment, evocation, illusion, necromancy, and trans-
mutation. Spells that do not fall into any of these schools are called 
universal spells. 
Abjuration: Spells that protect, block, or banish. An ab juration 
specialist is called an abjurer. 
Conjuration: Spells that bring creatures or materials to the caster. A 
conjuration specialist is called a conjurer. 
Divination: Spells that reveal information. A divination specialist is 
called a diviner. Unlike the other specialists, a diviner must give up only 
one other school. 
Enchantment: Spells that imbue the recipient with some property or 
grant the caster power over another being. An enchantment specialist is 
called an enchanter. 
Evocation: Spells that manipulate energy or create something from 
nothing. An evocation specialist is called an evoker. 
Illusion: Spells that alter perception or create false images. An illusion 
specialist is called an illusionist. 
Necromancy: Spells that manipulate, create, or destroy life or life force. 
A necromancy specialist is called a necromancer. 
Transmutation: Spells that transform the recipient physically or change 
its properties in a more subtle way. A transmutation specialist is called a 
transmuter. 
Universal: Not a school, but a category for spells that all wizards can 
learn. A wizard cannot select universal as a specialty school or as a 
prohibited school. Only a limited number of spells fall into this category.
Nebin 
[gnome 
illusionist] 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 