 
 58 
Elf Wizard Starting Package 
Armor: None (speed 30 ft.). 
Weapons: Quarterstaff (1d6/1d6, crit ×2, 4 lb., two-handed, 
bludgeoning). 
Light crossbow (1d8, crit 19–20/×2, range inc. 80 ft., 4 lb., 
piercing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 2 + Int modifier. 
 
Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Concentration 4 Con — 
Knowledge (arcana) 4 Int — 
Decipher Script 4 Int — 
Hide (cc) 2 Dex 0 
Move Silently (cc) 2 Dex 0 
Search (cc) 2 Int — 
Spot (cc) 2 Wis —  
 
Feat: Toughness. 
School Specialization: None. 
Spellbook: All 0-level spells; plus charm person, summon monster I, 
and sleep; plus one of these spells of your choice per point of 
Intelligence bonus (if any): cause fear , color spray , magic missile , and 
silent image. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Ten candles, map case, three pages of 
parchment, ink, inkpen. Spell component pouch, spellbook. Case 
with 10 crossbow bolts. 
Gold: 3d6 gp. 
 
EXPERIENCE AND LEVELS 
Experience points (XP) measure how much your character has 
learned and how much he or she has grown in personal power. Your 
character earns XP by defeating monsters and other opponents. The 
DM assigns XP to the characters at the end of each adventure based 
on what they have  accomplished. Characters accumulate XP from 
one adventure to another. When a character earns enough XP, he or 
she attains a new character level (see Table 3–2: Experience and 
Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). 
Advancing a Level: When your character’s XP total reaches at 
least the minimum XP needed for a new character level (see Table 
3–2), he or she “goes up a level.” For example, when Tordek obtains 
1,000 or more XP, he becomes a 2nd-level character. As soon as he 
accumulates a total of 3,000 XP or higher (2,000 more than he had 
when he gained 2nd level), he reaches 3rd level. Going up a level 
provides the character with several immediate benefits (see below). 
A character can advance only one level at a time. If, for some 
extraordinary reason, a character’s XP reward from a single 
adventure would be enough to advance two or more levels at once, 
he or she instead advances one level and gains just enough XP to be 
1 XP short of the next level. Any excess experience points are not 
retained. For example, if Tordek has 5,000 XP (1,000 points short of 
4th level) and gains 6,000 more, he would normally be at 11,000 
XP—enough for 5th level. Instead he attains 4th level, and his XP 
total stands at 9,999. 
Training and Practice: Characters spend time between adventures 
training, studying, or otherwise practicing their skills. This work 
consolidates what they learn on adventures and keeps them in top 
form. If, for some reason, a character can’t practice or train for an 
extended time, the DM may reduce XP awards or even cause the 
character to lose experience points. 
 
 
 
LEVEL ADVANCEMENT 
Each character class description includes a table that shows how the 
class features and statistics increase as a member of that class 
advances in level. When your character attains a new level, make 
these changes. 
1. Choose Class: A typical character has only one class, and when 
he or she attains a new level, it is a new level in that class. If your 
character has more than one class or wants to acquire a new class, 
you choose which class goes up one level. The other class or classes 
stay at the previous level. (See Multiclass Characters, page 59.) 
2. Base Attack Bonus:  The base attack bonus for fighters, 
barbarians, rangers, and paladins increase by 1 every level. The base 
attack bonus for other characters increases at a slower rate. If your 
character’s base attack bonus changes, record it on your character 
sheet. 
3. Base Save Bonuses:  Like base attack bonuses, base save 
bonuses improve at varying rates as characters increase in level. 
Check your character’s base save bonuses for the class that has 
advanced in level to see if any of them have increased by 1. Some 
base save bonuses increase at every even-numbered level; others 
increase at every level divisible by three. 
4. Ability Score: If your character has just attained 4th, 8th, 12th, 
16th, or 20th character level, choose one of his or her ability scores 
and raise it by 1 point. (It’s okay for a score to go above 18.) It’s the 
overall character level, not the class level, that counts for this 
adjustment. 
If your character’s Constitution modifier increases by 1 (see Table 
1–1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8), add +1 to his or her 
hit point total for every character level below the one just attained. 
For example, if you raise your character’s Constitution from 11 to 12 
at 4th level, he or she gets +3 hit points (one each for 1st, 2nd, and 
3rd levels). Add these points before rolling for hit points (the next 
step). 
5. Hit Points:  Roll a Hit Die, add your character’s Constitution 
modifier, and add the total roll to his or her hit points. Even if the 
character has a Constitution penalty and the roll was so low as to 
yield a result of 0 or fewer hit points, always add at least 1 hip point 
upon gaining a new level. 
6. Skill Points:  Each character gains skill points to spend on 
skills as detailed in the appropriate class description. For class skills, 
each skill point buys 1 rank, and a character’s maximum rank in the 
skill is his or her character level +3. For cross-class skills, each skill 
point only buys 1/2 rank, and the maximum rank in the skill is one-
half that of a class skill (don’t round up or down). See Table 3–2: 
Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22. 
If you have been “maxing out” a skill (putting as many skill points 
into it as possible), you don’t have to worry about calculating your 
maximum rank with it. At each new level, you can always assign 1 
skill point—and just 1—to any skill that you’re maxing out. (If it’s a 
cross-class skill, this point buys 1/2 rank.) 
Remember that you buy skills based on the class you have 
advanced in, so that only those skills given as class skills for that 
class can be purchased as class skills for this level, regardless of what 
other classes you may have levels in. 
Your character’s Intelligence modifier affects the number of skill 
points he or she gets at each level (see Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers 
and Bonus Spells, page 8). This rule represents an intelligent 
character’s ability to learn faster over time. Use your character’s 
current Intelligence score, including all permanent changes (such as 
inherent bonuses, ability drains, or an Intelligence increase gained 
at step 4, above) but not any temporary changes (such as ability 
damage, or enhancement bonuses gained from spells or magic 
items, such as a headband of intellect ), to determine the number of 
skill points you gain. 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 