 
 59
7. Feats:  Upon attaining 3rd level and at every third level 
thereafter (6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th level), the character gains 
one feat of your choice (see Table 5–1: Feats, page 90). The character 
must meet any prerequisites for that feat in order to select it. As with 
ability score increases, it is the overall character level, not the class 
level, that determines when a character gets a new feat. 
8. Spells:  Spellcasting characters gain the ability to cast more 
spells as they advance in levels. Each class description for a spell-
casting class includes a Spells per Day section (on the class table) 
that shows the base number of spells (without bonus spells for high 
ability scores) of a given spell level that a character can cast at each 
class level. See your character’s class description in this chapter for 
details. 
9. Class Features:  Check your character’s class description in 
this chapter for any new capabilities your character may receive. 
Many characters gain special attacks or new special powers as they 
advance in levels. 
 
MULTICLASS CHARACTERS 
A character may add new classes as he or she progresses in level, 
thus becoming a multiclass character. The class abilities from a 
character’s different classes combine to determine a multiclass 
character’s overall abilities. Multiclassing improves a character’s 
versatility at the expense of focus. 
 
CLASS AND LEVEL FEATURES 
As a general rule, the abilities of a multiclass character are the sum 
of the abilities of each of the character’s classes. 
Level: “Character level” is a character’s total number of levels. It is 
used to determine when feats and ability score boosts are gained, as 
noted on Table 3–2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits (page 
22). 
“Class level” is a character’s level in a particular class. For a 
character whose levels are all in the same class, character level and 
class level are the same. 
Hit Points: A character gains hit points from each class as his or 
her class level increases, adding the new hit points to the previous 
total. For example, Lidda the halfling began as a rogue and attained 
4th level, then added levels of wizard at her next two level 
advancements. As a 4th-level rogue/2nd-level wizard, her total hit 
points are 6 + 1d6 + 1d6 + 1d6 + 1d4 + 1d4. 
Base Attack Bonus:  Add the base attack bonuses acquired for 
each class to get the character’s base attack bonus. A resulting value 
of +6 or higher provides the character with multiple attacks. Find 
the character’s base attack bonus on Table 3–1: Base Save and Base 
Attack Bonuses (page 22) to see how many additional attacks the 
character gets and at what bonuses. For instance, a 6th-level 
rogue/4th-level wizard would have a base attack bonus of +6 (+4 for 
the rogue class and +2 for the wizard class). A base attack bonus of +6 
allows a second attack with a bonus of +1 (given as +6/+1 on Table 3–
1), even though neither the +4 from the rogue levels nor the +2 from 
the wizard levels normally allows an extra attack. 
Saving Throws:  Add the base save bonuses for each class 
together. A 7th-level rogue/4th-level wizard has a +3 base save bonus 
on Fortitude saving throws (+2 as a 7th-level rogue and +1 as a 4th-
level wizard), a +6 on Reflex saving throws (+5 and +1), and a +6 on 
Will saving throws (+2 and +4). 
Skills: If a skill is a class skill for any of a multiclass character’s 
classes, then character level determines a skill’s maximum rank. 
(The maximum rank for a class skill is 3 + character level.) 
If a skill is not a class skill for any of a multiclass character’s 
classes, the maximum rank for that skill is one-half the maximum 
for a class skill. 
For example, a 7th-level rogue/4th-level wizard (an 11th-level 
character) can have as many as 14 ranks in any skill that is a class 
skill for rogues or wizards. That same character can have as many as 
7 ranks in any skill that is not a class skill for rogues or wizards. 
Class Features: A multiclass character gets all the class features 
of all his or her classes but must also suffer the consequences of the 
special restrictions of all his or her classes. ( Exception: A character 
who acquires the barbarian class does not become illiterate.)  Some 
class features don’t work well with the skills or class features of 
other classes. For example, although rogues are proficient with light 
armor, a rogue/wizard still has an arcane spell failure chance if 
wearing armor. 
In the special case of turning undead, both clerics and experi-
enced paladins have the same ability. If the character’s paladin level 
is 4th or higher, her effective turning level is her cleric level plus 
her paladin level minus 3. Thus a 5th-level paladin/4th-level cleric 
turns undead as a 6th-level cleric. 
In the special case of uncanny dodge, both experienced bar-
barians and experienced rogues have the same ability. When a 
barbarian/rogue would gain uncanny dodge a second time (for her 
second class), she instead gains improved uncanny dodge, if she 
does not already have it. Her barbarian and rogue levels stack to 
determine the rogue level an attacker needs to flank her.  For 
example, a 2nd-level barbarian/4th-level rogue could only be 
flanked by a rogue of at least 10th level. 
In the special case of obtaining a familiar, both wizards and 
sorcerers have the same ability. A sorcerer/wizard stacks his sorcerer 
and wizard levels to determine the familiar’s natural armor, 
Intelligence score, and special abilities. 
Feats: A multiclass character gains a feat every three character 
levels, regardless of individual class level (see Table 3–2: Experience 
and Level Dependent Benefits, page 22). 
Ability Increases:  A multiclass character increases one ability 
score by 1 point every four character levels, regardless of individual 
class level (see Table 3–2: Experience and Level Dependent Benefits, 
page 22).. 
Spells: The character gains spells from all of his or her spell-
casting classes. Thus, an experienced ranger/druid may have access 
to the spell protection from elements  both as a ranger and as a druid. 
Since the spell’s effect is based on the class level of the caster, the 
player must keep track of whether the character is preparing and 
casting protection from elements as a ranger or as a druid. 
 
ADDING A SECOND CLASS 
When a character with one class gains a level, he or she may choose 
to increase the level of his or her current class or pick up a new class 
at 1st level. (A character can’t gain 1st level in the same class more 
than once, even if this would allow him or her to select different 
class features, such as a different set of domains for a cleric.) The DM 
may restrict the choices available based on the way he or she handles 
classes, skills, experience, and training. For instance, the character 
may need to find a tutor to teach him or her the ways of the new 
class. Additionally, the DM may require the player to declare what 
class the character is “working on” before he or she makes the jump 
to the next level, so the character has time to practice new skills. 
The character gains the 1st-level base attack bonuses, base save 
bonuses, class skills, weapon proficiency, armor and shield pro-
ficiencies, spells, and other class features of the new class, hit points 
of the appropriate Hit Die type, and the new class’s number of skill 
points gained at each additional level (not that number × 4, as is the 
case for a 1st level character). 
Picking up a new class is not exactly the same as starting a char-
acter in that class. Some of the benefits a 1st-level character gains 
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 