 
 
60 
(such as four times the usual number of skill points) represent the 
advantage of training while the character was young and fresh, with 
lots of time to practice. When picking up a new class, a character 
does not receive the following starting bonuses given to characters 
who begin their careers in that class: 
/rhombus4 Maximum hit points from the first Hit Die. 
/rhombus4 Quadruple the per-level skill points. 
/rhombus4 Starting equipment. 
/rhombus4 Starting gold. 
 
ADVANCING A LEVEL 
A multiclass character who attains a new level either increases one 
of his or her current class levels by one or picks up a new class at 1st 
level. 
When a multiclass character advances a level in a current class, he 
or she gets all the standard benefits that a character normally 
receives for attaining that level in that class: more hit points, 
possible bonuses on attack rolls, Armor Class and saving throws 
(depending on the class and the new level), possible new class 
features (as defined by the class), possible new spells, and new skill 
points. 
Skill points are spent according to the class that the multiclass 
character just advanced in (see Table 4–1: Skill Points per Level, 
page 62). Skills purchased from Table 4–2: Skills are purchased at 
the cost appropriate for that class. 
Rules for characters beyond 20th level (including multiclass 
characters beyond 20th level) are covered in the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide. 
 
XP FOR MULTICLASS CHARACTERS 
Developing and maintaining skills and abilities in more than one 
class is a demanding process. Depending on the character’s class 
levels and race, he or she might or might not suffer an XP penalty. 
Even Levels: If your multiclass character’s classes are nearly the 
same level (all within one class level of each other), then he or she 
can balance the needs of the multiple classes without penalty. For 
instance, a 4th-level wizard/3rd-level rogue takes no penalty, nor 
does a 2nd-level fighter/2nd-level wizard/3rd-level rogue. 
Uneven Levels: If any two of your multiclass character’s classes 
are two or more levels apart, the strain of developing and 
maintaining different skills at different levels takes its toll. Your 
multiclass character suffers a –20% penalty to XP for each class that 
is not within one level of his or her highest-level class. These 
penalties apply from the moment the character adds a class or raises 
a class’s level too high. For instance, a 4th-level wizard/3rd-level 
rogue gets no penalty, but if that character raises his wizard level to 
5th, then he takes the –20% penalty from that point on until his 
levels were nearly even again. 
Races and Multiclass XP:  A favored class (see the individual 
race entries in Chapter 2: Races) does not count against the char-
acter for purposes of the –20% penalty to XP. In such cases, calculate 
the XP penalty as if the character did not have that class. For 
instance, Bergwin is an 11th-level gnome character (a 9th-level 
rogue/2nd-level bard). He takes no penalty to his XP because he has 
only one nonfavored class. (Bard is favored for gnomes.) Suppose he 
then attains 12th level and adds 1st level as fighter to his classes, 
becoming a 9th-level rogue/2nd-level illusionist/1st-level fighter. 
He then takes a –20% XP penalty on future XP he earns because his 
fighter level is so much lower than his rogue level. Were he awarded 
1,200 XP for an adventure, he would receive only 80% of that 
amount, or 960 XP. If he thereafter rose to 13th level and picked up 
a fourth class (by adding 1st-level cleric, for example), he would take 
a –40% XP penalty from then on. 
As a second example, consider a dwarf 7th-level fighter/2nd-level 
cleric. This character takes no penalty because his fighter class is 
favored for dwarves and thus not counted when determining 
whether his classes are even. Nor does he take any penalty for 
adding 1st-level rogue to the mix, since his cleric and rogue classes 
are only one level apart. In this case, cleric counts as the character’s 
highest class. 
A human’s or half-elf’s highest-level class is always considered his 
or her favored class. 
 
HOW MULTICLASSING WORKS 
Lidda, a 4th-level halfling rogue, decides to expand her repertoire by 
learning some wizardry. She locates a mentor who teaches her the 
ways of a wizard, and she spends a lot of time looking over the 
shoulder of Mialee, her party’s wizard, while the latter prepares her 
spells each morning. When Lidda amasses 10,000 XP, she becomes a 
5th-level character. Instead of becoming a 5th-level rogue, however, 
she becomes a 4th-level rogue/1st-level wizard. Now, instead of 
gaining the benefits of attaining a new level as a rogue, she gains the 
benefits of becoming a 1st-level wizard. She gains a wizard’s Hit Die 
(d4), a 1st-level wizard’s +2 bonus on Will saves, and 4 skill points (2 
for one wizard level and +2 for her Intelligence score of 14) that she 
can spend as a wizard. These benefits are added to the scores she 
already had as a rogue. Her base attack bonus, Reflex save bonus, and 
Fortitude save bonus do not increase because these numbers are +0 
for a 1st-level wizard. She gains a 1st-level wizard’s beginning 
spellbook and spells per day. Her rogue skills and sneak attack 
capability, however, do not improve. She could spend some of her 4 
skill points to improve her rogue skills, but, since they would be 
treated as cross-class skills for a wizard, these skill points would each 
buy only one-half rank. (The exceptions are any Craft or Profession 
skills she may have, since Craft and Profession are class skills for 
both the rogue and the wizard.) 
On reaching 15,000 XP, she becomes a 6th-level character. She 
decides she’d like to continue along the wizard path, so she increases 
her wizard level instead of her rogue level. Again she gains the 
wizard’s benefits for attaining a new level rather than the rogue’s. As 
a 2nd-level wizard, she gains another d4 Hit Die, her base attack 
bonus and Will save bonus each go up by +1, she gains 4 more skill 
points, and she can now prepare another 0-level spell and another 
1st-level spell each day (as noted on Table 3–18: The Wizard). 
Additionally, as a 6th-level character overall she gets her third feat 
(as per Table 3–2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 
22). 
At this point, Lidda is a 6th-level character: a 4th-level rogue/2nd-
level wizard. She casts spells as a 2nd-level wizard does, and she 
sneak attacks as a 4th-level rogue does. Her combat skill is a little 
better than a 4th-level rogue’s would be, because she has learned 
something about fighting during her time as a wizard. (Her base 
attack bonus went up +1 when she became a 2nd-level wizard.) Her 
base Reflex save bonus is +4 (+4 from her rogue class and +0 from 
her wizard class), better than a 6th-level wizard’s but not as good as a 
6th-level rogue’s. Her base Will save bonus is +4 (+1 from her rogue 
class and +3 from her wizard class), better than a 6th-level rogue’s 
but not as good as a 6th-level wizard’s. 
At each new level, Lidda must decide whether to increase her 
rogue level or her wizard level. Of course, if she really wants to have 
diverse abilities, she could even acquire a third class—maybe 
fighter.
CHAPTER 3: 
CLASSES 