 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
idda the rogue can walk quietly up to a door, put her ear to it, and 
hear the troglodyte priest on the other side casting a spell 
on his pet crocodile. If Jozan the cleric were to try the same 
thing, he’d make so much noise that the troglodyte would 
hear him. Jozan could, however, identify the spell that the 
evil priest is casting. Actions such as these rely on the skills that 
characters have (in this case, Move Silently, Listen, and Spellcraft). 
 
SKILLS SUMMARY 
A character’s skills represent a variety of abilities. As a character 
advances in level, he or she gets better at using some or all of her 
skills. 
Getting Skills:  A  c h a r a c t e r  g e t s  a  b a s e  a l l o t m e n t  o f  2 ,  4 ,  6 ,  o r  8  
skill points for each new level, depending on the class to which that 
level was added. If the character gaining his or her 1st character 
level overall (that is, gaining his or her first level in any class), add 
his or her Intelligence modifier to the base skill point allotment for 
the class and multiply the total by four; then add an extra 4 points of 
the character is human. 
If you buy a class skill (such as Listen for a rogue or Spellcraft for 
a cleric), your character gets 1 rank (equal to a +1 bonus on checks 
with that skill) for each skill point. If you buy other classes’ skills 
(cross-class skills), you get 1/2 rank per skill point. Your maximum 
rank in a class skill is your character level + 3. Your maximum rank 
in a cross-class skill is one-half of this number (do not round up or 
down). 
Using Skills: To make a skill check, roll: 
1d20 + skill modifier 
(Skill modifier = skill rank + ability modifier 
+ miscellaneous modifiers) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This roll works just like an attack roll or a saving throw—the 
higher the roll, the better. Either you’re trying to match or 
exceed  a certain Difficulty Class (DC), or you’re trying to beat 
another character’s check result. For instance, to sneak quietly 
past a guard, Lidda needs to beat the guard’s Listen check result 
with her own Move Silently check result. 
Skill Ranks:  A character’s number of ranks in a skill is 
based on how many skill points a character has invested in a 
skill. Many skills can be used even if the character has no 
ranks in them; doing this is called making an untrained skill 
check. 
Ability Modifier:  The ability modifier used in a skill 
check is the modifier for the skill’s key ability (the ability 
associated with the skill’s use). The key ability of each skill is 
noted in its description and on Table 4–2: Skills. 
Miscellaneous Modifiers:  Miscellaneous modifiers 
include racial bonuses, armor check penalties, and bonuses 
provided by feats, among others. 
 
ACQUIRING SKILL RANKS 
Ranks indicate how much training or experience your 
character has with a given skill. Each of his or her skills 
has a rank, from 0 (for a skill in which your character has 
no training at all) to a number equal to 3 + character level 
(for a character who has increased a skill to its maximum 
rank). When making a skill check, you add your skill ranks 
to the roll as part of the skill modifier, so the more ranks you 
have, the higher your skill check result will be. 
 
 
61