 
 62 
Ranks tell you how proficient your are and reflect your training 
in a given skill. In general, while anyone can get a lucky roll, a 
character with, say, 10 ranks in a given skill has a higher degree of 
training and expertise in that skill than a character with 9 ranks or 
fewer. 
The class starting packages in Chapter 3 provide an easier way to 
select 1st-level skills, because they assume that you max out 
(increase to maximum rank) each skill you buy and because they 
provide a shorter list from which to choose. Although selecting 
skills from a starting package feels very different from buying them 
rank by rank, your character winds up spending the same number of 
skill points no matter which way you select 1st-level skills. 
The Skills paragraph on page 59 covers the skill acquisition rules 
for multiclass characters. 
 
Table 4–1: Skill Points per Level 
 1st-level Higher-level 
Class Skill Points 1 Skill Points 2 
Barbarian (4 + Int modifier) × 4 4 + Int modifier 
Bard (6 + Int modifier) × 4 6 + Int modifier 
Cleric (2 + Int modifier) × 4 2 + Int modifier 
Druid (4 + Int modifier) × 4 4 + Int modifier 
Fighter (2 + Int modifier) × 4 2 + Int modifier 
Monk (4 + Int modifier) × 4 4 + Int modifier 
Paladin (2 + Int modifier) × 4 2 + Int modifier 
Ranger (6 + Int modifier) × 4 6 + Int modifier 
Rogue (8 + Int modifier) × 4 8 + Int modifier 
Sorcerer (2 + Int modifier) × 4 2 + Int modifier 
Wizard (2 + Int modifier) × 4 2 + Int modifier 
1 Humans add +4 to this total at 1st level. 
2 Humans add +1 each level.
 
 
ACQUIRING SKILLS AT 1ST LEVEL 
Follow these two steps to pick skills for your 1st-level character: 
1. Determine the number of skill points your character gets. This 
number depends on his or her class and Intelligence modifier, as 
shown on Table 4–1: Skill Points per Level. For example, Lidda is a 
1st-level halfling rogue with an Intelligence score of 14 (+2 Int 
modifier). At the start of play, she has 40 skill points to spend (8 + 2 = 
10, 10 × 4 = 40). 
A character gets at least 4 skill points (1 × 4 = 4) at 1st level, even if 
he or she has an Intelligence penalty. 
A human gets 4 extra skill points as a 1st-level character. A human 
character with the same class and Intelligence modifier as Lidda 
would have 44 skill points at the start of play. 
2. Spend the skill points. Each skill point you spend on a class 
skill gets you 1 rank in that skill. Class skills are the skills found on 
your character’s class skill list. Each skill point you spend on a cross-
class skill gets your character 1/2 rank in that skill. Cross-class skills 
are skills not found on your character’s class skill list. (Half ranks do 
not improve your skill check, but two 1/2 ranks make 1 rank.) Your 
maximum rank in a class skill is 4. In a cross-class skill, it’s 2. 
Table 4–2: Skills shows all the skills and indicates which are class 
skills and which are cross-class skills for each class. 
Spend all your skill points. You can’t save them to spend later. 
 
SKILLS AT HIGHER LEVELS 
When your character attains a new level, follow these steps to gain 
new skills and improve those he or she already has: 
1. Determine the number of skill points your character gets. See 
Table 4–1: Skill Points per Level. 
A character gets at least 1 skill point at each new level, even if he 
or she has an Intelligence penalty. 
A human gets 1 extra skill point per level. 
2. You can improve any class skill that you’ve previously maxed 
out by 1 rank or any cross-class skill that you’ve previously maxed 
out by 1/2 rank. 
3. If you have not maxed out a skill, you can spend extra skill 
points on it and increase its rank further. 
First, find out what your character’s maximum rank in that skill 
is. If it’s a class skill, the maximum rank is the character’s new level + 
3. If it’s a cross-class skill, the maximum rank is half of that number 
(do not round up or down). 
You may spend the number of skill points it takes to max out the 
skill, provided that you have that many skill points to spend. 
4. If you want to pick up a new skill for your character, you can 
spend skill points equal to his or her character level +3. These skill 
points buy 1 rank each if the new skill is a class skill or 1/2 rank each 
if it’s a cross-class skill. 
Regardless of whether a skill is purchased as a class skill or a 
cross-class skill, if it is a class for any of your classes, your maximum 
rank equals your total character level +3. 
 
USING SKILLS 
When your character uses a skill, you make a skill check to see how 
well he or she does. The higher the result of the skill check, the 
better. Based on the circumstances, your result must match or beat a 
particular number (a DC or the result of an opposed skill check) for 
the check to be successful. The harder the task, the higher the 
number you need to roll. 
Circumstances can affect your check. A character who is free to 
work without distractions can make a careful attempt and avoid 
simple mistakes. A character who has lots of time can try over and 
over again, thereby assuring the best outcome. If others help, the 
character may succeed where otherwise he or she would fail. 
CHARACTER SKILLS 
When you create your character, you will probably only be able to
purchase ranks in a handful of skills. It may not seem as though you
have as many skills as real people do—but the skills on your character
sheet don’t actually define everything your character can do. 
Your character may have solid familiarity with many skills, without
having the actual training that grants skill ranks. Knowing how to strum a
few chords on a lute or clamber over a low fence doesn’t really mean you
have ranks in Perform or Climb. Ranks in those skills represent training
beyond everyday use—the ability to impress an audience with a wide
repertoire of songs on the lute, or to successfully scale a 100-foot-high 
cliff face. 
So how do normal people get through life without ranks in a lot o f
skills? For starters, remember that not every use a skill requires a skill
check. Performing routine tasks in normal situations is generally so easy 
that no check is required. And when a check might be called for, the DC 
of most mundane tasks rarely exceeds 10, let alone 15. In day-to-day life, 
when you don’t have enemies breathing down your neck and your life 
depending on success, you can take your time and do things right—
making it easy, even without any ranks in the requisite skill, to succeeed 
(see Checks without Rolls, page 65). 
You’re always welcome to assume that your character is familiar 
with—even good at, as far as everyday tasks go—many skills beyond 
those for which you actually gain ranks. The skills you buy ranks in, 
however, are those with which you have truly heroic potential. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 