 
 64 
Table 4–3: Difficulty Class Examples 
Difficulty (DC) Example (Skill Used) 
Very easy (0)  Notice something large in plain sight (Spot) 
Easy (5)  Climb a knotted rope (Climb) 
Average (10)  Hear an approaching guard (Listen) 
Tough (15)  Rig a wagon wheel to fall off (Disable Device) 
Challenging (20)  Swim in stormy water (Swim) 
Formidable (25)  Open an average lock (Open Lock) 
Heroic (30)  Leap across a 30-foot chasm (Jump) 
Nearly Track a squad of orcs across hard ground 
impossible (40) after 24 hours of rainfall (Survival)
 
 
Opposed Checks 
An opposed check is a check whose success or failure is determined 
by comparing the check result to another character’s check result. 
In an opposed check, the higher result succeeds, while the lower 
result fails. In case of a tie, the higher skill modifier wins. If these 
scores are the same, roll again to break the tie. 
For example, to sneak up on someone, you make a Move Silently 
check. Anyone who might hear you can make a Listen check to react 
to your presence. For the opponent to hear you, his or her Listen 
check result must equal or exceed your Move Silently check result. 
 
Table 4–4: Example Opposed Checks 
 Skill Opposing Skill 
Task  (Key Ability) (Key Ability)  
Con someone  Bluff (Cha)  Sense Motive (Wis) 
Pretend to be someone Disguise (Cha)  Spot (Wis) 
else 
Create a false map  Forgery (Int)  Forgery (Int) 
Hide from someone  Hide (Dex)  Spot (Wis) 
Make a bully back down  Intimidate (Cha)  Special 1 
Sneak up on someone  Move Silently (Dex)  Listen (Wis) 
Steal a coin pouch  Sleight of Hand (Dex)  Spot (Wis) 
Tie a prisoner securely  Use Rope (Dex)  Escape Artist (Dex) 
1 An Intimidate check is opposed by the target’s level check, not a skill 
check. See the Intimidate skill description, page 76, for more 
information.
 
 
Trying Again 
In general, you can try a skill check again if you fail, and you can 
keep trying indefinitely. Some skills, however, have consequences 
of failure that must be taken into account. A few skills are virtually 
useless once a check has failed on an attempt to accomplish a par-
ticular task. For most skills, when a character has succeeded once at 
a given task, additional successes are meaningless. 
For example, if Lidda the rogue misses an Open Lock check, she 
can try again and keep trying. If, however, a trap in the lock goes off 
if she misses an Open Lock check by 5 or more, then failure has its 
own penalties. 
Similarly, if Lidda misses a Climb check, she can keep trying, but 
if she misses by 5 or more, she falls (after which she can get up and 
try again). 
If Tordek has negative hit points and is dying, Lidda can make an 
untrained Heal check to make him stable. If the check fails, Tordek 
probably loses another hit point, but Lidda can try again in the next 
round. 
If a skill carries no penalties for failure, you can take 20 and 
assume that you go at it long enough to eventually succeed even-
tually (see Checks without Rolls, page 65). 
 
Untrained Skill Checks 
Generally, if your character attempts to use a skill he or she does not 
possess, you make a skill check as normal. The skill modifier doesn’t 
have a skill rank added in because the character has no ranks in the 
skill. Any other applicable modifiers, such as the modifier for the 
skill’s key ability, are applied to the check. 
Many skills can be used only by someone who is trained in them. 
If you don’t have Spellcraft, for example, you just don’t know 
enough about magic even to attempt to identify a spell, regardless of 
your class, ability scores, or experience level. Skills that cannot be 
used untrained are indicated by a “No” in the Untrained column on 
Table 4–2: Skills. 
For example, Krusk the barbarian’s 4 ranks in Climb make his 
Climb check results 4 points higher than they otherwise would be, 
but even Gimble the bard, with no Climb ranks, can make a Climb 
check because Climb can be used untrained. Gimble has a skill 
modifier of –1 (+0 for his Strength, –1 for armor), but he can give it a 
t r y .  H o w e v e r ,  G i m b l e ’ s  r a n k s  i n  U s e  M a g i c  D e v i c e  l e t  h i m  d o  
something that he otherwise couldn’t do at all—namely, use a magic 
item as if he had a particular spell on his class spell list that he 
actually doesn’t have. Krusk, with no ranks in the skill, can’t make a 
Use Magic Device check even at a penalty because Use Magic 
Device can’t be used untrained. 
 
Favorable and Unfavorable Conditions 
Some situations may make a skill easier or harder to use, resulting in 
a bonus or penalty to the skill modifier for a skill check or a change 
to the DC of the skill check. It’s one thing for Krusk, with his 
Survival skill, to hunt down enough food to eat while he’s camping 
for the day in the middle of a lush forest, but foraging for food while 
travelling across a barren desert is an entirely different matter. 
The DM can alter the chance of success in four ways to take into 
account exceptional circumstances. 
1. Give the skill user a +2 circumstance bonus to represent con-
ditions that improve performance, such as having the perfect tool 
for the job, getting help from another character (see Combining 
Skill Attempts, page 65), or possessing unusually accurate infor-
mation.  
2. Give the skill user a –2 circumstance penalty to represent 
conditions that hamper performance, such as being forced to use 
improvised tools or having misleading information. 
3. Reduce the DC by 2 to represent circumstances that make the 
t a s k  e a s i e r ,  s u c h  a s  h a v i n g  a  f r i e n d l y  a u d i e n c e  o r  d o i n g  w o r k  t h a t  
can be subpar. 
4. Increase the DC by 2 to represent circumstances that make the 
task harder, such as having an uncooperative audience or doing 
work that must be flawless. 
Conditions that affect your character’s ability to perform the skill 
change the skill modifier. Conditions that modify how well the 
character has to perform the skill to succeed change the DC. A 
bonus to the skill modifier and a reduction in the check’s DC have 
the same result: They create a better chance of success. But they 
represent different circumstances, and sometimes that difference is 
important. 
ACCESS TO SKILLS 
The rules assume that a character can find a way to learn any skill. For
instance, if Jozan wants to learn Profession (sailor), nothing in the rules
exists to stop him. However, the DM is in charge of the world and makes
all the decisions about where one can learn certain skills and where one 
can’t. While Jozan is living in a desert, for example, the DM can decide 
that he has no way of learning to be a sailor. It’s up to the DM to say 
whether a character can learn a given skill in a given setting. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 