 
 66 
helping gets a +2 bonus to his or her check, as per the rule for 
favorable conditions. (You can’t take 10 on a skill check to aid 
another.) In many cases, a character’s help won’t be beneficial, or 
only a limited number of characters can help at once. The DM limits 
cooperation as he or she sees fit for the given conditions. 
For instance, if Krusk has been badly wounded and is dying, 
Jozan can try a Heal check to keep him from losing more hit points. 
One other character can help Jozan. If the other character makes a 
Heal check against DC 10, then Jozan gets a +2 circumstance bonus 
on the Heal check he makes to help Krusk. The DM rules that two 
characters couldn’t help Jozan at the same time because a third 
person would just get in the way. 
In cases where the skill restricts who can achieve certain results 
(such as with Disable Device, Search, and Survival), you can’t aid 
another to grant a bonus to a task that your character couldn’t 
achieve alone. For instance, a character who doesn’t have the 
trapfinding class feature can’t use Search to help a rogue find a 
magic trap, since the helper couldn’t attempt to find the magic trap 
on his own. 
 
Skill Synergy 
It’s possible for a character to have two skills that work well 
together, such as someone with both Jump and Tumble. In general, 
having 5 or more ranks in one skill gives the character a +2 bonus on 
skill checks with each of its synergistic skills, as noted in the skill 
description and on Table 4–5: Skill Synergies. In some cases, this 
bonus applies only to specific uses of the skill in question, and not to 
all checks. Some skills provide benefits on other checks made by a 
character, such as those checks required to use certain class features. 
 
Table 4–5: Skill Synergies 
5 or more ranks in… Gives a +2 bonus on… 
Bluff Diplomacy checks 
Bluff Disguise checks to act in character 
Bluff Intimidate checks 
Bluff Sleight of Hand checks 
Craft related Appraise checks 
Decipher Script Use Magic Device checks involving scrolls 
Escape Artist use Rope checks involving bindings 
Handle Animal Ride checks 
Handle Animal wild empathy checks (class feature) 
Jump Tumble checks 
Knowledge 
(arcana) Spellcraft checks 
(architecture and Search checks involving secret doors and 
engineering) similar compartments 
(dungeoneering) Survival checks when underground 
(geography) Survival checks to keep from getting lost 
 or for avoiding hazards 
(history) bardic knowledge checks (class feature) 
(local) Gather Information checks 
(nature) Survival checks in aboveground natural 
 environments 
(nobility and royalty) Diplomacy checks 
(religion) checks to turn or rebuke undead (class feature) 
(the planes) Survival checks when on other planes 
Search Survival checks when following tracks 
Sense Motive Diplomacy checks 
Spellcraft Use Magic Device checks involving scrolls 
Survival Knowledge (nature) checks 
Tumble Balance checks 
Tumble Jump checks 
Use Magic Device Spellcraft checks to decipher spells on scrolls 
Use Rope Climb checks involving climbing ropes 
Use Rope Escape Artist checks involving ropes  
 
 
Your DM may limit certain synergies if desired, or he may add 
more synergies for specific situations. 
 
ABILITY CHECKS 
Sometimes a character tries to do something to which no specific 
skill really applies. In these cases, you make an ability check. An 
ability check is a roll of 1d20 plus the appropriate ability modifier. 
Essentially, you’re making an untrained skill check. The DM assigns 
a Difficulty Class, or sets up an opposed check when two characters 
are engaged in a contest using one ability score or another. The 
initiative check in combat, for example, is essentially a Dexterity 
check. The character who rolls highest goes first. 
In some cases, an action is a straight test of one’s ability with no 
luck involved. Just as you wouldn’t make a height check to see who 
is taller, you don’t make a Strength check to see who is stronger. 
When two characters arm wrestle, for example, the stringer 
character simply wins. In the case of identical scores, roll a die. 
 
Table 4–6: Example Ability Checks 
Task Key Ability 
Breaking open a jammed or locked door1 Strength 
Threading a needle Dexterity 
Holding one’s breath Constitution 
Navigating a maze Intelligence 
Recognizing a stranger you’ve seen before Wisdom 
Getting oneself singled out in a crowd Charisma 
1 See page 165 for information on breaking down doors and smashing 
objects.
 
 
SKILL DESCRIPTIONS 
This section describes each skill, including common uses and typ-
ical modifiers. Characters can sometimes use skills for purposes 
other than those noted here. For example, you might be able to 
impress a bunch of riders by making a Ride check. 
Here is the format for skill descriptions. 
 
SKILL NAME 
The skill name line includes (in addition to the name of the skill) 
the following information. 
Key Ability:  The abbreviation of the ability whose modifier 
applies to the skill check. Exception: Speak Language has “None” as 
its key ability because the use of this skill does not require a check. 
Trained Only: If this notation is included in the skill name line, 
you must have at least 1 rank in the skill to use it. If it is omitted, the 
skill can be used untrained (with a rank of 0). If any special notes 
apply to trained or untrained use, they are covered in the Untrained 
section (see below). 
Armor Check Penalty:  If this notation is included in the skill 
name line, an armor check penalty applies (when appropriate) to 
checks using this skill. If this entry is absent, an armor check 
penalty does not apply. 
The skill name line is followed by a general description of what 
using the skill represents. After the description are a few other types 
of information: 
Check: What a character (“you” in the skill description) can do 
with a successful skill check and the check’s DC. 
Action: The type of action using the skill requires, or the amount 
of time required for a check. 
Try Again:  Any conditions that apply to successive attempts to 
use the skill successfully. If the skill doesn’t allow you to attempt the 
same task more than once, or if failure carries an inherent penalty 
(such as with the Climb skill), you can’t take 20. If this paragraph is 
omitted, the skill can be retried without any inherent penalty, other 
than the additional time required. 
Special: Any extra facts that apply to the skill, such as special 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 