 
 67
effects deriving from its use or bonuses that certain characters 
receive because of class, feat choices, or race. 
Synergy: Some skills grant a bonus to the use of one or more 
other skills because of a synergistic effect. This entry, when present, 
indicates what bonuses this skill may grant or receive because of 
such synergies. See Table 4–5 for a complete list of bonuses granted 
by synergy between skills (or between a skill and a class feature). 
Restriction: The full utility of certain skills is restricted to 
characters of certain classes or characters who possess certain feats. 
This entry indicates whether any such restrictions exist for the skill. 
Untrained: This entry indicates what a character without at least 
1 rank in the skill can do with it. If this entry doesn’t appear, it 
means that the skill functions normally for untrained characters (if 
it can be used untrained) or that an untrained character can’t 
attempt checks with this skill (for skills that are designated as 
“Trained Only”). 
 
APPRAISE (INT) 
Use this skill to tell an antique from old junk, a sword that’s old and 
fancy from an elven heirloom, and high-quality jewelry from cheap 
stuff made to look good. 
Check: You can appraise common or well-known objects with a 
DC 12 Appraise check. Failure means that you estimate the value at 
50% to 150%. The DM secretly rolls a 2d6+3, multiplies the result by 
10%, multiplies the actual value by that percentage, then tells you 
the resulting value for the item. (For a common or well-known 
item, your chance of estimating the value within 10% is fairly 
high even if you fail the check—in such a case, you made a lucky 
guess.) 
Appraising a rare or exotic item requires a successful check 
against DC 15, 20, or higher. If the check is successful, you 
estimate the value correctly; failure means you cannot 
estimate the item’s value. 
A magnifying glass (page 130) gives you a +2 
circumstance bonus on Appraise checks 
involving any item that is small or highly 
detailed, such as a gem. A merchant’s scale 
(page 130) gives you a +2 circumstance bonus on 
Appraise checks involving any items that are 
valued by weight, including anything 
made of precious metals. These bonuses 
stack. 
Action: Appraising an item takes 1 
minute (ten consecutive full-round 
actions). 
Try Again:  No. You can-
not try again on the same object, 
regardless of success. 
Special: A dwarf gets a +2 racial 
bonus on Appraise checks that are related to 
stone or metal items because dwarves are 
familiar with valuable items of all kinds (especially 
those made of stone or metal). 
The master of a raven familiar (see the 
Familiars sidebar, page 52) gains a +3 bonus on 
Appraise checks. 
A character with the Diligent feat gets a +2 
bonus on Appraise checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 ranks in any Craft skill, you gain a +2 
bonus on Appraise checks related to items made with that Craft skill 
(see Craft, page 70). 
Untrained: For common items, failure on an untrained check 
means no estimate. For rare items, success means an estimate of 50% 
to 150% (2d6+3 times 10%). 
 
BALANCE (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
You can keep your balance while walking on a tightrope, a narrow 
beam, a slippery ledge, or an uneven floor. 
Check: You can walk on a precarious surface. A successful check 
lets you move at half your speed along the surface for 1 round. A 
failure by 4 or less means you can’t move for 1 round. A failure by 5 
or more means you fall. The difficulty varies with the surface, as 
follows: 
 
Narrow Surface Balance DC 1 Difficult Surface Balance DC 1 
7–12 inches wide 10 Uneven flagstone 10 2 
2–6 inches wide 15 Hewn stone floor 10 2 
Less than 2 inches wide 20 Sloped or angled floor 10 2 
1 Add modifiers from Narrow Surface Modifiers, below, as appropriate. 
2 Only if running or charging. Failure by 4 or less means the character 
can’t run or charge, but may otherwise act normally. 
 
Narrow Surface Modifiers 
Surface DC Modifier
1 
Lightly obstructed (scree, light rubble) +2 
Severely obstructed (natural cavern floor, dense rubble) +5 
Lightly slippery (wet floor) +2 
Severely slippery (ice sheet) +5 
Sloped or angled +2 
1 Add the appropriate modifier to the Balance DC of a narrow surface. 
These modifiers stack. 
 
Being Attacked while Balancing:  You are considered flat-footed 
while balancing, since you can’t move to avoid a blow, and thus 
you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). If you have 5 or more 
ranks in Balance, you aren’t considered flat-footed while 
balancing. If you take damage while balancing, you must 
make another Balance check against the same DC to 
remain standing. 
Accelerated Movement:  You can try to walk across a 
precarious surface more quickly than normal. If you 
accept a –5 penalty, you can move your full 
speed as a move action. (Moving twice 
your speed in a round requires two 
Balance checks, one for each move action 
used.) You may also accept this penalty in 
order to charge across a precarious 
surface; charging requires one Balance 
check for each multiple of your speed (or 
fraction thereof ) that you charge. 
Action: None. A Balance check doesn’t 
require an action; it is made as part of 
another action or as a reaction to 
a situation. 
Special: If you have the Agile 
feat, you get a +2 bonus on Balance 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in 
Tumble, you get a +2 bonus on Balance checks. 
 
BLUFF (CHA) 
You can make the outrageous or the untrue seem plausible, or use 
doublespeak or innuendo to deliver a secret message to another 
character. The skill encompasses acting, conning, fast talking, 
misdirection, prevarication, and misleading body language. Use a 
bluff to sow temporary confusion, get someone to turn and look 
where you point, or simply look innocuous. 
Check: A Bluff check is opposed by the target’s Sense Motive 
check. See the accompanying table for examples of different kinds 
of bluffs and the modifier to the target’s Sense Motive check for 
each one. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 