 
 
68 
Bluff Examples 
Example Circumstances Sense Motive Modifier 
The target wants to believe you. –5 
“These emeralds aren’t stolen. I’m just desperate for coin 
right now, so I’m offering them to you cheap.” 
The bluff is believable and doesn’t affect the target much. +0 
“I don’t know what you’re talking about, sir. I’m just a 
simple peasant girl here for the fair.” 
The bluff is a little hard to believe or puts the target at some risk. +5 
“You orcs want to fight? I’ll take you all on myself. I don’t 
need my friends’ help. Just don’t get your blood all over 
my new surcoat.” 
The bluff is hard to believe or puts the target at significant risk. +10 
“This diadem doesn’t belong to the duchess. It just looks 
like hers. Trust me, I wouldn’t sell you jewelry that would 
get you hanged, would I?” 
The bluff is way out there; it’s almost too incredible to consider. +20 
“You might find this hard to believe, but I’m actually a 
lammasu who’s been polymorphed into halfling form by 
an evil sorcerer. You know we lammasu are trustworthy, 
so you can believe me.” 
 
Favorable and unfavorable circumstances weigh heavily on the 
outcome of a bluff. Two circumstances can weigh against 
you: The bluff is hard to believe, or the action that 
the target is asked to take goes against its self-
interest, nature, persona-
lity, orders, or the like. If 
it’s important, the DM can 
distinguish between a bluff that 
fails because the target doesn’t believe 
it and one that fails because it just asks 
too much of the target. For instance, if 
the target gets a +10 bonus on 
its Sense Motive check because 
the bluff demands something 
risky, and the Sense Motive check 
succeeds by 10 or less, then the target 
didn’t so much see through the bluff as 
prove reluctant to go along with it. A target 
that succeeds by 11 or more has seen 
through the bluff (and would have done 
so even if that bluff had not entailed 
any demand). 
A successful Bluff check indicates 
that the target reacts as you wish, at 
least for a short time (usually 
1 round or less) or believes 
something that you want it to 
believe. Bluff, however, is not a 
suggestion spell. For example, you could 
use bluff to put a shopkeeper off guard 
by saying that his shoes are untied. At 
best, such a bluff would make the 
shopkeeper glance down at his 
shoes. It would not cause him to 
ignore you and fiddle with his 
shoes. 
A bluff requires interaction between 
you and the target. Creatures unaware of 
you cannot be bluffed. 
Feinting in Combat:  You can also use 
Bluff to mislead an opponent in melee 
combat (so that it can’t dodge your next 
attack effectively). To feint, make a Bluff 
check opposed by your target’s Sense 
Motive check, but in this case, the target may add its base attack 
bonus to the roll along with any other applicable modifiers. If your 
Bluff check result exceeds this special Sense Motive check result, 
your target is denied its Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) for the next 
melee attack you make against it. This attack must be made on or 
before your next turn. 
Feinting in this way against a nonhumanoid is difficult because 
it’s harder to read a strange creature’s body language; you take a –4 
penalty on your Bluff check. Against a creature of animal Intelli-
gence (1 or 2) it’s even harder; you take a –8 penalty. Against a non-
intelligent creature, it’s impossible. 
Feinting in combat does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 
Creating a Diversion to Hide:  You can use the Bluff skill to help you 
hide. A successful Bluff check gives you the momentary diversion 
you need to attempt a Hide check while people are aware of you. 
This usage does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 
Delivering a Secret Message:  You can use Bluff to get a message 
across to another character without others understanding it. Two 
rogues, for example, might seem to be talking about bakery goods 
when they’re really planning how to break into the evil wizard’s 
laboratory. The DC is 15 for simple messages, or 20 for complex 
messages, especially those that rely on getting across new 
information. Failure by 4 or less means you can’t get the 
message across. Failure by 5 or more means that some false 
information has been implied or inferred. Anyone listening 
to the exchange can make a Sense Motive check opposed by 
the Bluff check you made to transmit in order to intercept 
your message (see Sense Motive, page 81). 
Action: Varies. A Bluff check made as part of 
general interaction always takes at least 1 round 
(and is at least a full-round action), but it can take 
much longer if you try something elaborate. A 
Bluff check made to feint in combat or create a 
diversion to hide is a standard action. A Bluff check 
made to deliver a secret message doesn’t take an 
action; it is part of normal communication. 
However, the DM may limit the amount of 
information you can convey in a single round. 
Try Again:  Varies. Generally, a failed Bluff 
check in social interaction makes the target too 
suspicious for you to try again in the same 
circumstances, but you may retry freely on 
Bluff checks made to feint in combat. Retries 
are also allowed when you are trying to send a 
message, but you may attempt such a 
retry only once per round. Each retry 
carries the same chance of 
miscommunication. 
Special: A ranger gains a bonus on 
Bluff checks when using this skill 
against a favored enemy (see page 47). 
The master of a snake familiar (see 
the Familiars sidebar, page 52) 
gains a +3 bonus on Bluff checks. 
If you have the Persuasive feat, 
you get a +2 bonus on Bluff 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or 
more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2 
Krusk helps Jozan climb 
the cli
ff.
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 
