 
 70 
If the Concentration check succeeds, you may continue with the 
action as normal. If the check fails, the action automatically fails and 
is wasted. If you were in the process of casting a spell, the spell is 
lost (see Cast a Spell, page 140). If you were concentrating on an 
active spell, the spell ends as if you had ceased concentrating on it. If 
you were directing a spell, the direction fails but the spell remains 
active. If you were using a spell-like ability, that use of the ability is 
lost. A skill use also fails, and in some cases a failed skill check may 
have other ramifications as well. 
The table below summarizes various types of distractions that 
cause you to make a Concentration check. If the distraction occurs 
while you are trying to cast a spell, you must add the level of the 
spell you are trying to cast to the appropriate Concentration DC (See 
Concentration, page 170, for more information). If more than one 
type of distraction is present, make a check for each one; any failed 
Concentration check indicates that the task is not completed. 
 
Concentration DC1 Distraction 
10 + damage dealt Damaged during the action. 2 
10 + half of continuous Taking continuous damage during the 
damage last dealt action. 3 
Distracting spell’s Distracted by nondamaging spell. 4 
save DC 
10 Vigorous motion (on a moving mount, 
 taking a bouncy wagon ride, in a small boat 
 in rough water, belowdecks in a storm- 
 tossed ship). 
15 Violent motion (on a galloping horse, taking 
 a very rough wagon ride, in a small boat in 
 rapids, on the deck of a storm-tossed ship). 
20 Extraordinarily violent motion (earthquake). 
15 Entangled. 
20 Grappling or pinned. (You can cast only 
 spells without somatic components for 
 which you have any required material 
 component in hand.) 
5 Weather is a high wind carrying blinding 
 rain or sleet. 
10 Weather is wind-driven hail, dust, or debris. 
Distracting spell’s Weather caused by a spell, such as storm of 
save DC vengeance.4 
 
1 If you are trying to cast, concentrate on, or direct a spell when the 
distraction occurs, add the level of the spell to the indicated DC. 
2 Such as during the casting of a spell with a casting time of 1 round or 
more, or the execution of an activity that takes more than a single full-
round action (such as Disable Device). Also, damage stemming from 
an attack of opportunity or readied attack made in response to the 
spell being cast (for spells with a casting time of 1 action) or the 
action being taken (for activities requiring no more than a full-round 
action). (See also Distracting Spellcasters, page 160.) 
3 Such as from Melf’s acid arrow. 
4 If the spell allows no save, use the save DC it would have if it did allow 
a save.
 
 
Action: None. Making a Concentration check doesn’t take an 
action; it is either a free action (when attempted reactively) or part of 
another action (when attempted actively). 
Try Again:  Yes, though a success doesn’t cancel the effect of a 
previous failure, such as the loss of a spell you were casting or the 
disruption of a spell you were concentrating on. 
Special: You can use Concentration to cast a spell, use a spell-like 
ability, or use a skill defensively, so as to avoid attacks of opportunity 
altogether. This doesn’t apply to other actions that might provoke 
attacks of opportunity (such as movement or loading a crossbow). 
The DC of the check is 15 (plus the spell’s level, if casting a spell or 
using a spell-like ability defensively). If the Concentration check 
succeeds, you may attempt the action normally without provoking 
any attacks of opportunity. A successful Concentration check still 
doesn’t allow you to take 10 on another check if you are in a stressful 
situation; you must make the check normally. If the Concentration 
check fails, the related action also automatically fails (with any 
appropriate ramifications), and the action is wasted, just as if your 
concentration had been disrupted by a distraction. 
A character with the Combat Casting feat gets a +4 bonus on 
Concentration checks made to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability 
while on the defensive (see page 140) or while grappling or pinned. 
 
CRAFT (INT) 
You are trained in a craft, trade, or art, such as alchemy, armor-
smithing, basketweaving, bookbinding, bowmaking, blacksmithing, 
calligraphy, carpentry, cobbling, gemcutting, leatherworking, 
locksmithing, painting, pottery, sculpting, shipmaking, stonema-
sonry, trapmaking, weaponsmithing, or weaving. 
Like Knowledge, Perform, and Profession, Craft is actually a 
number of separate skills. For instance, you could have the skill 
Craft (carpentry). Your ranks in that skill don’t affect any Craft 
(pottery) or Craft (leatherworking) checks you might make. You 
could have several Craft skills, each with its own ranks, each pur-
chased as a separate skill. 
A Craft skill is specifically focused on creating something. If 
nothing is created by the endeavor, it probably falls under the 
heading of a Profession skill (page 80). 
Check: You can practice your trade and make a decent living, 
earning about half your check result in gold pieces per week of 
dedicated work. You know how to use the tools of your trade, how to 
perform the craft’s daily tasks, how to supervise untrained helpers, 
and how to handle common problems. (Untrained laborers and 
assistants earn an average of 1 silver piece per day.) 
The basic function of the Craft skill, however, is to allow you to 
make an item of the appropriate type. The DC depends on the 
complexity of the item to be created. The DC, your check results, 
and the price of the item determine how long it takes to make a 
particular item. (In the game world, is it the skill level required, the 
time required, and the raw materials required that determine an 
item’s price.) 
In some cases, the fabricate spell(page 229) can be used to achieve 
the results of a Craft check with no actual check involved. However, 
you must make an appropriate Craft check when using the spell to 
make articles requiring a high degree of craftsmanship (jewelry, 
swords, glass, crystal, and so forth). 
A successful Craft check related to woodworking in conjunction 
with the casting of the ironwood spell (page 246) enables you to make 
wooden items that have the strength of steel. 
When casting the spell minor creation  (page 253), you must suc-
ceed on an appropriate Craft check to make a complex item. For 
instance, a successful Craft (bowmaking) check might be required to 
make straight arrow shafts. 
All crafts require artisan’s tools (page 129) to give the best chance 
of success. If improvised tools are used, the check is made with a –2 
circumstance penalty. On the other hand, masterwork artisan’s tools 
provide a +2 circumstance bonus on the check. 
To determine how much time and money it takes to make an 
item, follow these steps. 
1. Find the item’s price in Chapter 7: Equipment of this book or in 
the Dungeon Master’s Guide, or have the DM set the price for an item 
not otherwise described. Put the price in silver pieces (1 gp = 10 sp). 
2. Find the DC from the table below, or have the DM set one. 
3. Pay one-third of the item’s price for the cost of raw materials. 
4. Make an appropriate Craft check representing one week’s 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 