 
 71
work. If the check succeeds, multiply your check result by the DC. 
If the result × the DC equals the price of the item in sp, then you 
have completed the item. (If the result × the DC equals double or 
triple the price of the item in silver pieces, then you’ve completed 
the task in one-half or one-third of the time. Other multiples of the 
DC reduce the time in the same manner.) If the result × the DC 
doesn’t equal the price, then it represents the progress you’ve made 
this week. Record the result and make a new Craft check for the 
next week. Each week, you make more progress until your total 
reaches the price of the item in silver pieces. 
If you fail a check by 4 or less, you make no progress this week. If 
you fail by 5 or more, you ruin half the raw materials and have to pay 
half the original raw material cost again. 
Progress by the Day:  You can make checks by the day instead of by 
the week. In this case your progress (check result × DC) is in copper 
pieces instead of silver pieces. 
Creating Masterwork Items:  You can make a masterwork item—a 
weapon, suit of armor, shield, or tool that conveys a bonus on its use 
through its exceptional craftsmanship, not through being magical. 
To create a masterwork item, you create the masterwork component 
as if it were a separate item in addition to the standard item. The 
masterwork component has its own price (300 gp for a weapon or 
150 gp for a suit of armor or a shield) and a Craft DC of 20. Once 
both the standard component and the masterwork component are 
completed, the masterwork item is finished. Note: The cost you pay 
for the masterwork component is one-third of the given amount, 
just as it is for the cost in raw materials. 
Repairing Items:  Generally, you can repair an item by making 
checks against the same DC that it took to make the item in the first 
place. The cost of repairing an item is one-fifth of the item’s price. 
When you use the Craft skill to make a particular sort of item, the 
DC for checks involving the creation of that item are typically as 
given on the following table. 
 
Item Craft Skill Craft DC 
Acid Alchemy 1 15 
Alchemist’s fire, smokestick, Alchemy 1 20 
or tindertwig 
Antitoxin, sunrod, tanglefoot Alchemy 1 25 
bag, or thunderstone 
Armor or shield Armorsmithing 10 + AC bonus 
Longbow or shortbow Bowmaking  12 
Composite longbow or Bowmaking 15 
composite shortbow 
Composite longbow or Bowmaking 15 + 
composite shortbow with   (2 × rating) 
high strength rating 
Crossbow Weaponsmithing 15 
Simple melee or thrown weapon Weaponsmithing 12 
Martial melee or thrown weapon Weaponsmithing 15 
Exotic melee or thrown weapon Weaponsmithing 18 
Mechanical trap Trapmaking Varies
2 
Very simple item (wooden spoon) Varies 5 
Typical item (iron pot) Varies 10 
High-quality item (bell) Varies 15 
Complex or superior item (lock) Varies 20 
1 You must be a spellcaster to craft any of these items. 
2 Chapter 3 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide contains a set of rules for 
how to construct traps.
 
 
Action: Does not apply. Craft checks are made by the day or week 
(see above). 
Try Again:  Yes, but each time you miss by 5 or more, you ruin 
half the raw materials and have to pay half the original raw material 
cost again. 
Special: A dwarf has a +2 racial bonus on Craft checks that are 
related to stone or metal, because dwarves are especially capable 
with stonework and metalwork. 
A gnome has a +2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks because 
gnomes have sensitive noses. 
You may voluntarily add +10 to the indicated DC to craft an item. 
This allows you to create the item more quickly (since you’ll be 
multiplying this higher DC by your Craft check result to determine 
progress). You must decide whether to increase the DC before you 
make each weekly or daily check. 
To make an item using Craft (alchemy), you must have alchemical 
equipment and be a spellcaster. If you are working in a city, you can 
buy what you need as part of the raw materials cost to make the 
item, but alchemical equipment is difficult or impossible to come by 
in some places. Purchasing and maintaining an alchemist’s lab 
grants (page 129) a +2 circumstance bonus on Craft (alchemy) 
checks because you have the perfect tools for the job, but it does not 
affect the cost of any items made using the skill. 
Synergy: If you have 5 ranks in a Craft skill, you get a +2 bonus 
on Appraise checks related to items made with that Craft skill. 
 
DECIPHER SCRIPT (INT; TRAINED ONLY) 
Use this skill to piece together the meaning of ancient runes carved 
into the wall of an abandoned temple, to get the gist of an 
intercepted letter written in the Infernal language, to follow the 
directions on a treasure map written in a forgotten alphabet, or to 
interpret the mysterious glyphs painted on a cave wall. 
Check: You can decipher writing in an unfamiliar language or a 
message written in an incomplete or archaic form. The base DC is 20 
for the simplest messages, 25 for standard texts, and 30 or higher for 
intricate, exotic, or very old writing. 
If the check succeeds, you understand the general content of a 
piece of writing about one page long (or the equivalent). If the check 
fails, the DM makes a DC 5 Wisdom check for your to see if you 
avoid drawing a false conclusion about the text. (Success means that 
you do not draw a false conclusion; failure means that you do.) 
The DM secretly makes both the Decipher Script check and (if 
necessary) the Wisdom check, so that you can’t tell whether the 
conclusion you draw is true or false. 
Action: Deciphering the equivalent of a single page of script 
takes 1 minute (ten consecutive full-round actions). 
Try Again: No. 
Special: A character with the Diligent feat gets a +2 bonus on 
Decipher Script checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Decipher Script, you get 
a +2 bonus on Use Magic Device checks involving scrolls. 
 
DIPLOMACY (CHA) 
Use this skill to persuade the chamberlain to let you see the king, to 
negotiate peace between feuding barbarian tribes, or to convince the 
ogre mages that have captured you that they should ransom you 
back to your friends instead of twisting your limbs off one by one. 
Diplomacy includes etiquette, social grace, tact, subtlety, and a way 
with words. A skilled character knows the formal and informal rules 
of conduct, social expectations, proper forms of address, and so on. 
This skill represents the ability to give others the right impression of 
oneself, to negotiate effectively, and to influence others. 
Check: You can change the attitudes of others (nonplayer 
characters) with a successful Diplomacy check; see the Influencing 
NPC Attitudes sidebar, below, for basic DCs. (The Dungeon Master’s 
Guide has more information on influencing NPCs.) In negotiations, 
participants roll opposed Diplomacy checks, and the winner gains 
the advantage. Opposed checks also resolve situations when two 
advocates or diplomats plead opposite cases in a hearing before a 
third party. 
Action: Changing others’ attitudes with Diplomacy generally 
takes at least 1 full minute (10 consecutive full-round actions). In 
some situations, this time requirement may greatly increase. A 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 