 
 72 
rushed Diplomacy check (such as an attempt to head off a fight 
between two angry warriors) can be made as a full-round action, but 
you take a –10 penalty on the check. 
Try Again:  Optional, but not recommended because retries 
usually do not work. Even if the initial Diplomacy check succeeds, 
the other character can be persuaded only so far, and a retry may do 
more harm than good. If the initial check fails, the other character 
has probably become more firmly committed to his position, and a 
retry is futile. 
Special: A half-elf has a +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy checks, 
thanks to her ability to relate well to others. 
If you have the Negotiator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Diplomacy 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, Knowledge (no-
bility and royalty), or Sense Motive, you get a +2 bonus on Diplo-
macy checks. 
 
DISABLE DEVICE (INT; TRAINED ONLY) 
Use this skill to disarm a trap, jam a lock (in either the open or 
closed position), or rig a wagon wheel to fall off. You can examine a 
fairly simple or fairly small mechanical device and disable it. The 
effort requires at least a simple tool of the appropriate sort (a pick, 
pry bar, saw, file, etc.). Attempting a Disable Device check without a 
set of thieves’ tools (page 130) carries a –2 circumstance penalty, 
even if a simple tool is employed. The use of masterwork thieves’ 
tools enables you to make the check with a +2 circumstance bonus. 
Check: Your DM makes the Disable Device check for you 
secretly, so that you don’t necessarily know whether you’ve suc-
ceeded. The DC depends on how tricky the device is. Disabling (or 
r i g g i n g  o r  j a m m i n g )  a  f a i r l y  s i m p l e  d e v i c e  h a s  a  D C  o f  1 0 ;  m o r e  
intricate and complex devices have higher DCs. 
If the check succeeds, you disable the device. If it fails by 4 or less, 
you have failed but can try again. If you fail by 5 or more, something 
goes wrong. If the device is a trap, you spring it. If you’re attempting 
some sort of sabotage, you think the device is disabled, but it still 
works normally. 
You also can rig simple devices such as saddles or wagon wheels 
to work normally for a while and then fail or fall off some time later 
(usually after 1d4 rounds or minutes of use). 
 
Device Time Disable Device DC 1 Example 
Simple 1 round 10 Jam a lock 
Tricky 1d4 rounds 15 Sabotage a wagon wheel 
Difficult 2d4 rounds 20 Disarm a trap, reset a trap 
Wicked 2d4 rounds 25 Disarm a complex trap, 
   cleverly sabotage a 
   clockwork device 
1 If you attempt to leave behind no trace of your tampering, add 5 to the 
DC.
 
Action: The amount of time needed to make a Disable Device 
check depends on the task, as noted above. Disabling a simple 
device takes 1 round and is a full-round action. An intricate or 
complex device requires 1d4 or 2d4 rounds. 
Try Again: Varies. You can retry if you have missed the check by 
4 or less, though you must be aware that you have failed in order to 
try again. 
Special: If you have the Nimble Fingers feat, you get a +2 bonus 
on Disable Device checks. 
A rogue who beats a trap’s DC by 10 or more can study the trap, 
figure out how it works, and bypass it (along with her companions) 
without disarming it. 
Restriction: Rogues (and other characters with the trapfinding 
class feature) can disarm magic traps. A magic trap generally has a 
DC of 25 + the spell level of the magic used to create it. For instance, 
disarming a trap set by the casting of explosive runes has a A C of 28 
because explosive runes is a 3rd-level spell. 
The spells fire trap , glyph of warding , symbol, and teleportation circle  
also create traps that a rogue can disarm with a successful Disable 
Device check. Spike growth  and spike stones , however, create magic 
traps against which Disable Device checks do not succeed. See the 
individual spell descriptions in Chapter 11: Spells for details. 
 
DISGUISE (CHA) 
Use this skill to change your appearance or someone else’s. The 
effort requires at least a few props, some makeup, and some time. 
The use of a disguise kit (page 130) provides a +2 circumstance 
bonus to a Disguise check. A disguise can include an apparent 
change of height or weight of no more than one-tenth the original. 
You can also use Disguise to impersonate people, either indi-
viduals or types. For example, you might, with little or no actual 
disguise, make yourself seem like a traveller even if you’re a local. 
Check: Your Disguise check result determines how good the 
disguise is, and it is opposed by others’ Spot check results. If you 
don’t draw any attention to yourself, others do not get to make Spot 
checks. If you come to the attention of people who are suspicious 
(such as a guard who is watching commoners walking through a city 
gate), the DM can assume that such observers are taking 10 on their 
Spot checks. 
The effectiveness of your disguise depends in part on how much 
you’re attempting to change your appearance. 
 
INFLUENCING NPC ATTITUDES 
Use the table below to determine the effectiveness of Diplomacy checks
(or Charisma checks) made to influence the attitude of a nonplayer
character, or wild empathy checks made to influence the attitude of an
animal or magical beast. The Dungeon Master’s Guide has more 
information on NPC attitudes. 
 
Initial ————— New Attitude (DC to achieve)————— 
Attitude Hostile Unfriendly Indifferent Friendly Helpful
Hostile Less than 20 20 25 35 50 
Unfriendly Less than 5 5 15 25 40 
Indifferent — Less than 1 1 15 30 
Friendly — — Less than 1 1 20 
Helpful — — — Less than 1 1 
For example, if a character encounters a nonplayer character whose 
initial attitude is hostile, that character needs to get a result of 20 or
higher on a Diplomacy check (or Charisma check) to change that NPC’s 
attitude. On any result less than 20, the NPC’s attitude is unchanged. On 
a result of 20 to 24, the NPC’s attitude improves to unfriendly. 
 
Attitude Means Possible Actions 
Hostile Will take risks to hurt you Attack, interfere, berate, flee
Unfriendly Wishes you ill Mislead, gossip, avoid, 
  watch suspiciously, insult 
Indifferent Doesn’t much care Socially expected interaction
Friendly Wishes you well Chat, advise, offer limited 
  help, advocate 
Helpful Will take risks to help you Protect, back up, heal, aid 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 