 
 73
Disguise  Disguise Check Modifier 
Minor details only +5 
Disguised as different gender1 –2 
Disguised as different race1 –2 
Disguised as different age category1 –2 2 
1 These modifiers are cumulative; use any that apply. 
2 Per step of difference between your actual age category and your 
disguised age category. The steps are: young (younger than 
adulthood), adulthood, middle age, old, and venerable. 
 
If you are impersonating a particular individual, those who know 
what that person looks like get a bonus on their Spot checks 
according to the table below. Furthermore, they are automatically 
considered to be suspicious of you, so opposed checks are always 
called for. 
 
Familiarity  Viewer’s Spot Check Bonus 
Recognizes on sight  +4 
Friends or associates  +6 
Close friends  +8 
Intimate  +10
 
 
Usually, an individual makes a Spot check to see through your dis-
guise immediately upon meeting you and each hour thereafter. If 
you casually meet many different creatures, each for a short time, 
check once per day or hour, using an average Spot modifier for the 
group. For example, if you are trying to pass for a merchant at a 
bazaar, the DM can make one Spot check per hour for the people 
you encounter, using a +1 bonus on the check to represent the 
average for the crowd (most people with no Spot ranks and a few 
with good Spot modifiers). 
Action: Creating a disguise requires 1d3×10 minutes of work. 
Try Again:  Yes. You may try to redo a failed disguise, but once 
others know that a disguise was attempted, they’ll be more 
suspicious. 
Special: Magic that alters your form, such as alter self, disguise self, 
polymorph, or shapechange, grants you a +10 bonus on Disguise checks 
(see the individual spell descriptions in Chapter 11: Spells). You 
must succeed on a Disguise check with a +10 bonus to duplicate the 
appearance of a specific individual using the veil spell. Divination 
magic that allows people to see through illusions (such as true seeing) 
does not penetrate a mundane disguise, but it can negate the magical 
component of a magically enhanced one. 
You must make a Disguise check when you cast a simulacrum spell 
(page 279), to determine how good the likeness is. 
If you have the Deceptive feat, you get a +2 bonus on Disguise 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2 bonus 
on Disguise checks when you know that you’re being observed and 
you try to act in character. 
ESCAPE ARTIST (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
Use this skill to slip out of bonds or manacles, wriggle through tight 
spaces, or escape the grip of a monster that grapples you. 
Check: The table below gives the DCs to escape various forms of 
restraints. 
Ropes: Your Escape Artist check is opposed by the binder’s Use 
Rope check. Since it’s easier to tie someone up than to escape from 
being tied up, the binder gets a +10 bonus on his or her check. 
Manacles and Masterwork Manacles:  The DC for manacles is set by 
their construction. 
Tight Space:  The DC noted on the table is for getting through a 
space where your head fits but your shoulders don’t. If the space is 
long, such as a chimney, the DM may call for multiple checks. You 
can’t get through a space that your head does not fit through. 
Grappler: You can make an Escape Artist check opposed by your 
enemy’s grapple check to get out of a grapple or out of a pinned 
condition (so that you’re only grappling). See Escape from Grapple 
under If You’re Grappling, page 156. 
 
Restraint Escape Artist DC 
Ropes Binder’s Use Rope check at +10 
Net, animate rope spell, command plants spell, 20 
control plants spell, or entangle spell 
Snare spell 23 
Manacles 30 
Tight space 30 
Masterwork manacles 35 
Grappler Grappler’s grapple check result  
 
Action: Making an Escape Artist check to escape from rope 
bindings, manacles, or other restraints (except a grappler) requires 1 
minute of work. Escaping from a net or an animate rope , command 
plants, control plants, or entangle spell is a full-round action. Escaping 
from a grapple or pin is a standard action. Squeezing through a tight 
space takes at least 1 minute, maybe longer, depending on how long 
the space is. 
Try Again:  Varies. You can make another check after a failed 
check if you’re squeezing your way through a tight space, making 
multiple checks. If the situation permits, you can make additional 
checks, or even take 20, as long as you’re not being actively opposed. 
Special: If you have the Agile feat, you get a +2 bonus on Escape 
Artist checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Escape Artist, you get a 
+2 bonus on Use Rope checks to bind someone. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a +2 bonus on 
Escape Artist checks when escaping from rope bonds. 
 
 
 
OTHER WAYS TO BEAT A TRAP 
It’s possible to ruin many traps without making a Disable Device check.
Ranged Attack Traps:  Once a trap’s location is known, the obvious
way to ruin it is to smash the mechanism—assuming the mechanism
can be accessed. Failing that, it’s possible to plug up the holes from
which the pro jectiles emerge. Doing this prevents the trap from firing
unless its ammunition does enough damage to break through the plugs.
Melee Attack Traps:  These devices can be thwarted by smashing the
mechanism or blocking the weapons, as noted above. Alternatively, if a
character studies the trap as it triggers, he might be able to time his
dodges just right to avoid damage. A character who is doing nothing but
studying a trap when it first goes off gains a +4 dodge bonus against its
attacks if it is triggered again within the next minute. 
Pits: Disabling a pit trap generally ruins only the trapdoor, making it 
an uncovered pit. Filling in the pit or building a makeshift bridge across 
it is an application of manual labor, not the Disable Device skill. 
Characters could neutralize any spikes at the bottom of a pit by attacking 
them—they break just as daggers do. 
Magic Traps:  Dispel magic helps here. Someone who succeeds on a 
caster level check against the level of the trap’s creator suppresses the 
trap for 1d4 rounds. This works only with a targeted dispel magic, not the 
area version (see the spell description, page 223). 
Traps are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 3 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 