 
 74 
FORGERY (INT) 
Use this skill to fake a written order from the duchess instructing a 
jailer to release prisoners, to create an authentic-looking treasure 
map, or to detect forgeries that others try to pass off. 
Check: Forgery requires writing materials appropriate to the 
document being forged, enough light or sufficient visual acuity to 
see the details of what you’re writing, wax for seals (if appropriate), 
and some time. To forge a document on which the handwriting is 
not specific to a person (military orders, a government decree, a 
business ledger, or the like), you need only to have seen a similar 
document before, and you gain a +8 bonus on your check. To forge a 
signature, you need an autograph of that person to copy, and you 
gain a +4 bonus on the check. To forge a longer document written in 
the hand of some particular person, a large sample of that person’s 
handwriting is needed. 
Your DM makes your Forgery check secretly, so that you’re not 
sure how good your forgery is. As with Disguise, you don’t even 
need to make a check until someone examines the work. Your 
Forgery check is opposed by the Forgery check of the person who 
examines the document to check its authenticity. The examiner 
gains modifiers on his or her check if any of the conditions on the 
table below exist. 
 
 Reader’s 
Condition Forgery Check Modifier 
Type of document unknown to reader –2 
Type of document somewhat known to reader +0 
Type of document well known to reader +2 
Handwriting not known to reader –2 
Handwriting somewhat known to reader +0 
Handwriting intimately known to reader +2 
Reader only casually reviews the document –2  
 
A document that contradicts procedure, orders, or previous 
knowledge, or one that requires sacrifice on the part of the person 
checking the document can increase that character’s suspicion (and 
thus create favorable circumstances for the checker’s opposing 
Forgery check). 
Action: Forging a very short and simple document takes about 1 
minute. A longer or more complex document takes 1d4 minutes per 
page. 
Try Again: Usually, no. A retry is never possible after a particular 
reader detects a particular forgery. But the document created by the 
forger might still fool someone else. The result of a Forgery check 
for a particular document must be used for every instance of a 
different reader examining the document. No reader can attempt to 
detect a particular forgery more than once; if that one opposed 
check goes in favor of the forger, then the reader can’t try using his 
own skill again, even if he’s suspicious about the document. 
Special: If you have the Deceitful feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Forgery checks. 
Restriction: Forgery is language-dependent; thus, to forge 
documents and detect forgeries, you must be able to read and write 
the language in question. A barbarian can’t learn the Forgery skill 
unless he has learned to read and write. 
 
GATHER INFORMATION (CHA) 
Use this skill for making contacts in an area, finding out local gossip, 
rumormongering, and collecting general information. 
Check: An evening’s time, a few gold pieces for buying drinks 
and making friends, and a DC 10 Gather Information check get you 
a general idea of a city’s major news items, assuming there are no 
obvious reasons why the information would be withheld. (Such 
reasons might include racial enmity—if you are an elf hanging out 
in an orc city, for example—or your inability to speak the local lan-
guage.) The higher your check result, the better the information. 
If you want to find out about a specific rumor (“Which way to the 
ruined temple of Erythnul?”) or a specific item (“What can you tell 
me about that pretty sword the captain of the guard walks around 
with?”), or obtain a map, or do something else along those lines, the 
DC for the check is 15 to 25, or even higher. 
Action: A typical Gather Information check takes 1d4+1 hours. 
Try Again:  Yes, but it takes time for each check. Furthermore, 
you may draw attention to yourself if you repeatedly pursue a cer-
tain type of information. 
Special: A half-elf has a +2 racial bonus on Gather Information 
checks, thanks to her ability to relate well to others. 
If you have the Investigator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Gather 
Information checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (local), you 
get a +2 bonus on Gather Information checks. 
 
HANDLE ANIMAL (CHA; TRAINED ONLY) 
Use this skill to drive a team of horses pulling a wagon over rough 
terrain, to teach a dog to guard, or to teach a tyrannosaur to “speak” 
on your command. 
Check: The DC depends on what you are trying to do. 
 
Task Handle Animal DC 
Handle an animal 10 
“Push” an animal 25 
Teach an animal a trick 15 or 20 1 
Train an animal for a general purpose 15 or 20 1 
Rear a wild animal 15 + HD of animal 
1 See the specific trick or purpose below. 
 
 General Purpose DC General Purpose DC 
 Combat riding 20 Hunting 20 
 Fighting 20 Performance 15 
 Guarding 20 Riding 15 
 Heavy labor 15  
 
Handle an Animal:  This task involves commanding an animal to 
perform a task or trick that it knows. For instance, to command a 
trained attack dog to attack a foe requires a DC 10 Handle Animal 
check. If the animal is wounded or has taken any nonlethal damage 
or ability score damage, the DC increases by 2. If your check 
succeeds, the animal performs the task or trick on its next action. 
“Push” an Animal:  To push an animal means to get it to perform a 
task or trick that it doesn’t know but is physically capable of per-
forming. This category also covers making an animal perform a 
forced march or forcing it to hustle for more than 1 hour between 
sleep cycles (see Chapter 9: Adventuring). If the animal is wounded 
or has taken any nonlethal damage or ability score damage, the DC 
increases by 2. If your check succeeds, the animal performs the task 
or trick on its next action. 
Teach an Animal a Trick:  You can teach an animal a specific trick 
with one week of work and a successful Handle Animal check 
against the indicated DC. An animal with an Intelligence score of 1 
(such as a snake or a shark) can learn a maximum of three tricks, 
while an animal with an Intelligence score of 2 (such as a dog or a 
horse) can learn a maximum of six tricks. Possible tricks (and their 
associated DCs) include, but are not necessarily limited to, the 
following. 
Attack (DC 20): The animal attacks apparent enemies. You may 
point to a particular creature that you wish the animal to attack, and 
it will comply if able. Normally, an animal will attack only 
humanoids, monstrous humanoids, giants, or other animals. 
Teaching an animal to attack all creatures (including such unnatural 
creatures as undead and aberrations) counts as two tricks. 
Come (DC 15): The animal comes to you, even if it normally 
would not do so (following you onto a boat, for example). 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 