 
 75
Defend (DC 20): The animal defends you (or is ready to defend 
you if no threat is present), even without any command being given. 
Alternatively, you can command the animal to defend a specific 
other character. 
Down (DC 15): The animal breaks off from combat or otherwise 
backs down. An animal that doesn’t know this trick continues to 
fight until it must flee (due to injury, a fear effect, or the like) or its 
opponent is defeated. 
Fetch (DC 15): The animal goes and gets something. If you do not 
point out a specific item, the animal fetches some random object. 
Guard (DC 20): The animal stays in place and prevents others 
from approaching. 
Heel (DC 15): The animal follows you closely, even to places 
where it normally wouldn’t go. 
Perform (DC 15): The animal performs a variety of simple tricks, 
such as sitting up, rolling over, roaring or barking, and so on. 
Seek (DC 15): The animal moves into an area and looks 
around for anything that is obviously alive or animate. 
Stay (DC 15): The animal stays in place, waiting for you to 
return. It does not challenge other creatures that come by, 
though it still defends itself if it needs to. 
Track (DC 20): The animal tracks the scent presented to it. (This 
requires the animal to have the scent ability; see the Monster 
Manual for details.) 
Work (DC 15): The animal pulls or pushes a medium or 
heavy load. 
Train an Animal for a Purpose:  Rather than teaching an 
animal individual tricks, you can simply train it for a 
general purpose. Essentially, an animal’s purpose represents 
a preselected set of known tricks that fit into a common 
scheme, such as guarding or heavy labor. The animal must 
meet all the normal prerequisites for all tricks included in 
the training package. If the package includes more than three 
tricks, the animal must have an Intelligence score of 2. 
An animal can be trained for only one general purpose, though if 
the creature is capable of learning additional tricks (above and 
beyond those included in its general purpose), it may do so. Training 
an animal for a purpose requires fewer checks than teaching 
individual tricks does, but no less time. At your DM’s option, you 
may be able to train an animal for a purpose that isn’t mentioned 
here. 
Combat Riding (DC 20): An animal trained to bear a rider into 
combat knows the tricks attack, come, defend, down, guard, and 
heel. Training an animal for combat riding takes six weeks. You may 
also “upgrade” an animal trained for riding to one trained for combat 
riding by spending three weeks and making a successful DC 20 
Handle Animal check. The new general purpose and tricks 
completely replace the animal’s previous purpose and any tricks it 
once knew. Warhorses and riding dogs (see the Monster Manual) are 
already trained to bear riders into combat, and they don’t require any 
additional training for this purpose. 
Fighting (DC 20): An animal trained to engage in combat knows 
the tricks attack, down, and stay. Training an animal for fighting 
takes three weeks. 
Guarding (DC 20): An animal trained to guard knows the tricks 
attack, defend, down, and guard. Training an animal for guarding 
takes four weeks. 
Heavy Labor (DC 15): An animal trained for heavy labor knows 
the tricks come and work. Training an animal for heavy labor takes 
two weeks. 
Hunting (DC 20): An animal trained for hunting knows the tricks 
attack, down, fetch, heel, seek, and track. Training an animal for 
hunting takes six weeks. 
Performance (DC 15): An animal trained for performance knows 
the tricks come, fetch, heel, perform, and stay. Training an animal 
for performance takes five weeks. 
Riding (DC 15): An animal trained to bear a rider knows the tricks 
come, heel, and stay. Training an animal for riding takes three 
weeks. 
Rear a Wild Animal:  To rear an animal means to raise a wild 
creature from infancy so that it becomes domesticated. A handler 
can rear as many as three creatures of the same kind at once. A 
successfully domesticated animal can be taught tricks at the same 
time it’s being raised, or it can be taught as a domesticated animal 
later. 
Action: Varies. Handling an animal is a move action, while 
pushing an animal is a full-round action. (A druid or ranger can 
handle her animal companion as a free action or push it as a move 
action.) For tasks with specific time frames noted above, you must 
spend half this time (at the rate of 3 hours per day per animal being 
handled) working toward completion of the task before you attempt 
the Handle Animal check. If the check fails, your attempt to 
teach, rear, or train the animal fails and you need not 
complete the teaching, rearing, or training time. If the check 
succeeds, you must invest the remainder of the time to complete 
the teaching, rearing, or training. If the time is interrupted or 
the task is not followed through to completion, the attempt to 
teach, rear, or train the animal automatically fails. 
Try Again: Yes, except for rearing an animal. 
Special: You can use this skill on a creature with an 
Intelligence score of 1 or 2 that is not an animal, but the DC 
of any such check increases by 5. Such creatures have the 
same limit on tricks known as animals do. The Monster 
Manual provides information on teaching or training 
other kinds of creatures as appropriate. 
A druid or ranger gains a +4 circumstance bonus on 
Handle Animal checks involving her animal 
companion. In addition, a druid’s or ranger’s animal 
companion knows one or more bonus tricks, which don’t count 
against the normal limit on tricks known and don’t require any 
training time or Handle Animal checks to teach. 
If you have the Animal Affinity feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Handle Animal checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Handle Animal, you get a 
+2 bonus on Ride checks and wild empathy checks. 
Untrained: If you have no ranks in Handle Animal, you can use a 
Charisma check to handle and push domestic animals, but you can’t 
teach, rear, or train animals. A druid or ranger with no ranks in 
Handle Animal can use a Charisma check to handle and push her 
animal companion, but she can’t teach, rear, or train other 
nondomestic animals. 
 
HEAL (WIS) 
Use this skill to keep a badly wounded friend from dying, to help 
others recover faster from wounds, to keep your friend from suc-
cumbing to a wyvern’s sting, or to treat disease. 
Check: The DC and effect depend on the task you attempt. 
 
Task Heal DC 
First aid 15 
Long-term care 15 
Treat wound from caltrop, spike growth, or spike stones 15 
Treat poison Poison’s save DC 
Treat disease Disease’s save DC  
 
First Aid:  You usually use first aid to save a dying character. If a 
character has negative hit points and is losing hit points (at the rate 
of 1 per round, 1 per hour, or 1 per day), you can make him or her 
stable. A stable character regains no hit points but stops losing them. 
(See Dying, page 145.) 
Long-Term Care: Providing long-term care means treating a 
wounded person for a day or more. If your Heal check is successful, 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 