 
 76 
the patient recovers hit points or ability score points (lost to ability 
damage) at twice the normal rate: 2 hit points per level for a full 8 
hours of rest in a day, or 4 hit points per level for each full day of 
complete rest; 2 ability score points for a full 8 hours of rest in a day, 
or 4 ability score points for each full day of complete rest. You can 
tend as many as six patients at a time. You need a few items and 
supplies (bandages, salves, and so on) that are easy to come by in 
settled lands. 
Giving long-term care counts as light activity for the healer. You 
cannot give long-term care to yourself. 
Treat Wound from Caltrop, Spike Growth, or Spike Stones:  A creature 
wounded by stepping on a caltrop moves at one-half normal speed. 
A successful Heal check removes this movement penalty. 
A creature wounded by a spike growth  or spike stones  spell must 
succeed on a Reflex save or take injuries that reduce his speed by 
one-third. Another character can remove this penalty by taking 10 
minutes to dress the victim’s injuries and succeeding on a Heal 
check against the spell’s save DC. 
Treat Poison: To treat poison means to tend a single character who 
has been poisoned and who is going to take more damage from the 
poison (or suffer some other effect). Every time the poisoned 
character makes a saving throw against the poison, you make a Heal 
check. The poisoned character uses your check result or his or her 
saving throw, whichever is higher. 
Treat Disease:  To treat a disease means to tend a single diseased 
character. Every time he or she makes a saving throw against disease 
effects, you make a Heal check. The diseased character uses your 
check result or his or her saving throw, whichever is higher. 
Action: Providing first aid, treating a wound, or treating poison is 
a standard action. Treating a disease or tending a creature wounded 
by a spike growth  or spike stones  spell takes 10 minutes of work. 
Providing long-term care requires 8 hours of light activity. 
Try Again: Varies. Generally speaking, you can’t try a Heal check 
again without proof of the original check’s failure. For instance, 
until a poisoned character makes a saving throw against the 
poisoned wound you’ve treated, you can’t know whether your Heal 
check was successful or not, so you can’t retry the check. You can 
always retry a check to provide first aid, assuming the target of the 
previous attempt is still alive. 
Special: A character with the Self-Sufficient feat gets a +2 bonus 
on Heal checks. 
A healer’s kit (page 130) gives you a +2 circumstance bonus on 
Heal checks. 
 
HIDE (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
Use this skill to sink back into the shadows and proceed unseen, to 
approach a wizard’s tower under cover of brush, or to tail someone 
through a busy street without being noticed. 
Check: Your Hide check is opposed by the Spot check of anyone 
who might see you. You can move up to one-half your normal speed 
and hide at no penalty. When moving at a speed greater than one-
half but less than your normal speed, you take a –5 penalty. It’s 
practically impossible (–20 penalty) to hide while attacking, running 
or charging. 
For example, Lidda has a speed of 20 feet. If she doesn’t want to 
take a penalty on her Hide check, she can move only 10 feet as a 
move action (up to a maximum of 20 feet in a round). 
A creature larger or smaller than Medium takes a size bonus or 
penalty on Hide checks depending on its size category: Fine +16, 
Diminutive +12, Tiny +8, Small +4, Large –4, Huge –8, Gargantuan –
12, Colossal –16. 
You need cover or concealment (see pages 150–152) in order to 
attempt a Hide check. Total cover or total concealment usually (but 
not always; see Special, below) obviates the need for a Hide check, 
since nothing can see you anyway. 
If people are observing you, even casually, you can’t hide. You can 
run around a corner or behind cover so that you’re out of sight and 
then hide, but the others then know at least where you went. If your 
observers are momentarily distracted (such as by a Bluff check; see 
below), though, you can attempt to hide. While the others turn their 
attention from you, you can attempt a Hide check if you can get to a 
hiding place of some kind. (As a general guideline, the hiding place 
has to be within 1 foot per rank you have in Hide.) This check, 
however, is made at a –10 penalty because you have to move fast. 
Sniping: If you’ve already successfully hidden at least 10 feet from 
your target, you can make one ranged attack, then immediately hide 
again. You take a –20 penalty on your Hide check to conceal 
yourself after the shot. 
Creating a Diversion to Hide:  You can use Bluff (page 67) to help 
you hide. A successful Bluff check can give you the momentary 
diversion you need to attempt a Hide check while people are aware 
of you. 
Action: Usually none. Normally, you make a Hide check as part 
of movement, so it doesn’t take a separate action. However, hiding 
immediately after a ranged attack (see Sniping, above) is a move 
action. 
Special: If you are invisible, you gain a +40 bonus on Hide checks 
if you are immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if you’re 
moving. 
If you have the Stealthy feat, you get a +2 bonus on Hide checks. 
A 13th-level ranger can attempt a Hide check in any sort of nat-
ural terrain, even if it doesn’t grant cover or concealment. A 17th-
level ranger can do this even while being observed (see page 48). 
 
INTIMIDATE (CHA) 
Use this skill to get a bully to back down, to frighten an opponent, 
or to make a prisoner give you the information you want. Intimi-
dation includes verbal threats and body language. 
Check: You can change another’s behavior with a successful 
check. Your Intimidate check is opposed by the target’s modified 
level check (1d20 + character level or Hit Dice + target’s Wisdom 
bonus [if any] + target’s modifiers on saves against fear). If you beat 
your target’s check result, you may treat the target as friendly, but 
only for the purpose of actions taken while it remains intimidated. 
(That is, the target retains its normal attitude, but will chat, advise, 
offer limited help, or advocate on your behalf while intimidated. See 
the Diplomacy skill, above, for additional details.) The effect lasts as 
long as the target remains in your presence, and for 1d6×10 minutes 
afterward. After this time, the target’s default attitude toward you 
shifts to unfriendly (or, if normally unfriendly, to hostile). 
If you fail the check by 5 or more, the target provides you with 
incorrect or useless information, or otherwise frustrates your efforts. 
Demoralize Opponent:  You can also use Intimidate to weaken an 
opponent’s resolve in combat. To do so, make an Intimidate check 
opposed by the target’s modified level check (see above). If you win, 
the target becomes shaken for 1 round. A shaken character takes a –
2 penalty on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. You can 
intimidate only an opponent that you threaten in melee combat and 
that can see you. 
Action: Varies. Changing another’s behavior requires 1 minute of 
interaction. Intimidating an opponent in combat is a standard 
action. 
Try Again:  Optional, but not recommended because retries 
usually do not work. Even if the initial check succeeds, the other 
character can be intimidated only so far, and a retry doesn’t help. If 
the initial check fails, the other character has probably become more 
firmly resolved to resist the intimidator, and a retry is futile. 
Special: You gain a +4 bonus on your Intimidate check for every 
size category that you are larger than your target. Conversely, you 
take a –4 penalty on your Intimidate check for every size category 
that you are smaller than your target. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 