 
 77
A character immune to fear (such as a paladin of 3rd level or 
higher) can’t be intimidated, nor can nonintelligent creatures. 
If you have the Persuasive feat, you get a +2 bonus on Intimidate 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2 bonus 
on Intimidate checks. 
 
JUMP (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
Use this skill to leap over pits, vault low fences, or reach a tree’s 
lowest branches. 
Check: The DC and the distance you can cover vary according to 
the type of jump you are attempting (see below). 
Your Jump check is modified by your speed. If your speed is 30 
feet (the speed of an unarmored human), then no modifier based on 
speed applies to the check. If your speed is less than 30 feet, you take 
a –6 penalty for every 10 feet of speed less than 30 feet. If your speed 
is greater than 30 feet, you gain a +4 bonus for every 10 feet beyond 
30 feet. For instance, if you have a speed of 20 feet, you take a –6 
penalty on your Jump checks. If, on the other hand, your speed is 50 
feet, you gain a +8 bonus. 
All Jump DCs given here assume that you get a running start, 
which requires that you move at least 20 feet in a straight line before 
attempting the jump. If you do not get a running start, the DC for 
the jump is doubled. 
Distance moved by jumping is counted against your normal 
maximum movement in a round. For example, Krusk has a speed of 
40 feet. If he moves 30 feet, then jumps across a 10-foot-wide chasm, 
he’s then moved 40 feet total, so that’s his move action. 
If you have ranks in Jump and you succeed on a Jump check, you 
land on your feet (when appropriate). If you attempt a Jump check 
untrained, you land prone unless you beat the DC by 5 or more. 
Long Jump:  A long jump is a horizontal jump, made across a gap 
like a chasm or stream. At the midpoint of the jump, you attain a 
vertical height equal to one-quarter of the horizontal distance. The 
DC for the jump is equal to the distance jumped (in feet). For 
example, a 10-foot-wide pit requires a DC 10 Jump check to cross. 
If your check succeeds, you land on your feet at the far end. If you 
fail the check by less than 5, you don’t clear the distance, but you can 
make a DC 15 Reflex save to grab the far edge of the gap. You end 
your movement grasping the far edge. If that leaves you dangling 
over a chasm or gap, getting up requires a move action and a DC 15 
Climb check. 
 
Long Jump Distance Jump DC 1 
5 feet 5 
10 feet 10 
15 feet 15 
20 feet 20 
25 feet 25 
30 feet 30 
1 Requires a 20-foot running start. Without a running start, double the 
DC.
 
 
High Jump:  A high jump is a vertical leap made to reach a ledge 
high above or to grasp something overhead, such as a tree limb. The 
DC is equal to 4 times the distance to be cleared. For example, the 
DC for a high jump to land atop a 3-foot-high ledge is 12 (3 × 4). 
If you jumped up to grab something, a successful check indicates 
that you reached the desired height. If you wish to pull yourself up, 
you can do so with a move action and a DC 15 Climb check. If you 
fail the Jump check, you do not reach the height, and you land on 
your feet in the same spot from which you jumped. As with a long 
jump, the DC is doubled if you do not get a running start of at least 
20 feet. 
 
High Jump Distance1 Jump DC 2 
1 foot 4 
2 feet 8 
3 feet 12 
4 feet 16 
5 feet 20 
6 feet 24 
7 feet 28 
8 feet 32 
1 Not including vertical reach; see below. 
2 Requires a 20-foot running start. Without a running start, double the 
DC.
 
 
Obviously, the difficulty of reaching a given height varies according 
to the size of the character or creature. The maximum vertical reach 
(height the creature can reach without jumping) for an average 
creature of a given size is shown on the table below. (As a Medium 
creature, a typical human can reach 8 feet without jumping.) 
Quadrupedal creatures (such as horse) don’t have the same vertical 
reach as a bipedal creature; treat them as being one size category 
smaller. 
 
Creature Size Vertical Reach 
Colossal 128 ft. 
Gargantuan 64 ft. 
Huge 32 ft. 
Large 16 ft. 
Medium 8 ft. 
Small 4 ft. 
Tiny 2 ft. 
Diminutive 1 ft. 
Fine 1/2 ft.  
 
Hop Up: You can jump up onto an object as tall as your waist, such 
as a table or small boulder, with a DC 10 Jump check. Doing so 
counts as 10 feet of movement, so if your speed is 30 feet, you could 
move 20 feet, then hop up onto a counter. You do not need to get a 
running start to hop up, so the DC is not doubled if you do not get a 
running start. 
Jumping Down: If you intentionally jump from a height, you take 
less damage than you would if you just fell. The DC to jump down 
from a height is 15. You do not have to get a running start to jump 
down, so the DC is not doubled if you do not get a running start. 
If you succeed on the check, you take falling damage as if you had 
dropped 10 fewer feet than you actually did. Thus, if you jump down 
from a height of just 10 feet, you take no damage. If you jump down 
from a height of 20 feet, you take damage as if you had fallen 10 feet. 
Action: None. A Jump check is included in your movement, so it 
is part of a move action. If you run out of movement mid-jump, your 
next action (either on this turn or, if necessary, on your next turn) 
must be a move action to complete the jump. 
Special: Effects that increase your movement also increase your 
jumping distance, since your check is modified by your speed. 
If you have the Run feat, you get a +4 bonus on Jump checks for 
any jumps made after a running start. 
A halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Jump checks because halflings 
are agile and athletic. 
If you have the Acrobatic feat, you get a +2 bonus on Jump 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Tumble, you get a +2 
bonus on Jump checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Jump, you get a +2 bonus on 
Tumble checks. 
 
 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 