 
 79
indicated DC would be their average check result (or close to it). For 
instance, the DC 19 noted on the table for a cat stalking means that 
an average cat has a +9 bonus on Move Silently checks. Assuming an 
average roll of 10 on 1d20, its Move Silently check result would be 
19. 
Action: Varies. Every time you have a chance to hear something 
in a reactive manner (such as when someone makes a noise or you 
move into a new area), you can make a Listen check without using 
an action. Trying to hear something you failed to hear previously is a 
move action. 
Try Again: Yes. You can try to hear something that you failed to 
hear previously with no penalty. 
Special: When several characters are listening to the same thing, 
a single 1d20 roll can be used for all the individuals’ Listen checks. 
A fascinated creature takes a –4 penalty on Listen checks made as 
reactions. 
If you have the Alertness feat, you get a +2 bonus on Listen 
checks. 
A ranger gains a bonus on Listen checks when using this skill 
against a favored enemy (see page 47). 
An elf, gnome, or halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Listen checks, 
thanks to the keen ears with which members of those races are 
blessed. 
A half-elf has a +1 racial bonus on Listen checks. Her hearing is 
good because of her elven heritage, but not as keen as that of a full 
elf. 
A sleeping character may make Listen checks at a –10 penalty. A 
successful check awakens the sleeper. 
 
MOVE SILENTLY (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
You can use this skill to sneak up behind an enemy or to slink away 
without being noticed. 
Check: Your Move Silently check is opposed by the Listen check 
of anyone who might hear you. You can move up to one-half your 
normal speed at no penalty. When moving at a speed greater than 
one-half but less than your full speed, you take a –5 penalty. It’s 
practically impossible (–20 penalty) to move silently while running 
or charging. 
Noisy surfaces, such as bogs or undergrowth, are tough to move 
silently across. When you try to sneak across such a surface, you take 
a penalty on your Move Silently check as indicated below. 
 
Surface Check Modifier 
Noisy (scree, shallow or deep bog, undergrowth, –2 
dense rubble) 
Very noisy (dense undergrowth, deep snow) –5  
 
Action: None. A Move Silently check is included in your move-
ment or other activity, so it is part of another action. 
Special: The master of a cat familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, 
page 52) gains a +3 bonus on Move Silently checks. 
A halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Move Silently checks because 
halflings are nimble. 
If you have the Stealthy feat, you get a +2 bonus on Move Silently 
checks. 
 
OPEN LOCK (DEX; TRAINED ONLY) 
You can pick padlocks, finesse combination locks, and solve puzzle 
locks. The effort requires at least a simple tool of the appropriate sort 
(a pick, pry bar, blank key, wire, or the like). Attempting an Open 
Lock check without a set of thieves’ tools (page 130) imposes a –2 
circumstance penalty on the check, even if a simple tool is 
employed. If you use masterwork thieves’ tools, you gain a +2 
circumstance bonus on the check. 
Check: The DC for opening a lock varies from 20 to 40, depend-
ing on the quality of the lock, as given on the table below. 
Lock DC Lock DC 
Very simple lock 20 Good lock 30 
Average lock 25 Amazing lock 40  
 
Action: Opening a lock is a full-round action. 
Special: If you have the Nimble Fingers feat, you get a +2 bonus 
on Open Lock checks. 
Untrained: You cannot pick locks untrained, but you might 
successfully force them open (see Smashing an Object, page 165). 
 
PERFORM (CHA) 
You are skilled in a type of artistic expression, which may encom-
pass a variety of specific methods, and you know how to put on a 
show. 
Like Craft, Knowledge, and Profession, Perform is actually a 
number of separate skills. For instance, you could have the skill 
Perform (act). Your ranks in that skill don’t affect any checks you 
happen to make for Perform (oratory) or Perform (string 
instruments). You could have several Perform skills, each with its 
own ranks, each purchased as a separate skill. 
Each of the nine categories of the Perform skill includes a variety 
of methods, instruments, or techniques, a small list of which is 
provided for each category below. The DM is free to expand any of 
these categories with additional methods, instruments, or tech-
niques, as appropriate for his or her campaign. 
/rhombus4 Act (comedy, drama, mime) 
/rhombus4 Comedy (buffoonery, limericks, joke-telling) 
/rhombus4 Dance (ballet, waltz, jig) 
/rhombus4 Keyboard instruments (harpsichord, piano, pipe organ) 
/rhombus4 Oratory (epic, ode, storytelling) 
/rhombus4 Percussion instruments (bells, chimes, drums, gong) 
/rhombus4 String instruments (fiddle, harp, lute, mandolin) 
/rhombus4 Wind instruments (flute, pan pipes, recorder, shawm, trumpet) 
/rhombus4 Sing (ballad, chant, melody) 
 
Check: You can impress audiences with your talent and skill. 
 
 Perform 
 DC Performance 
 10 Routine performance. Trying to earn money by playing in 
  public is essentially begging. You can earn 1d10 cp/day. 
 15 Enjoyable performance. In a prosperous city, you can earn 
  1d10 sp/day. 
 20 Great performance. In a prosperous city, you can earn 
  3d10 sp/day. In time, you may be invited to join a pro- 
  fessional troupe and may develop a regional reputation. 
 25 Memorable performance. In a prosperous city, you can 
  earn 1d6 gp/day. In time, you may come to the attention of 
  noble patrons and develop a national reputation. 
 30 Extraordinary performance. In a prosperous city, you can 
  earn 3d6 gp/day. In time, you may draw attention from 
  distant potential patrons, or even from extraplanar beings.  
 
A masterwork musical instrument (page 130) gives you a +2 cir-
cumstance bonus on Perform checks that involve its use. 
Action: Varies. Trying to earn money by playing in public 
requires anywhere from an evening’s work to a full day’s perform-
ance, at the DM’s discretion. The bard’s special Perform-based abil-
ities are described in that class’s description (page 29). 
Try Again: Yes. Retries are allowed, but they don’t negate previ-
ous failures, and an audience that has been unimpressed in the past 
is likely to be prejudiced against future performances. (Increase the 
DC by 2 for each previous failure.) 
Special: A bard must have at least 3 ranks in a Perform skill to 
inspire courage in his allies, or to use his countersong or his fascinate 
ability. A bard needs 6 ranks in a Perform skill to inspire com-
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 