 
 80 
petence, 9 ranks to use his suggestion ability, 12 ranks to inspire 
greatness, 15 ranks to use his song of freedom  ability, 18 ranks to 
inspire heroics, and 21 ranks to use his mass suggestion  ability. See 
Bardic Music in the bard class description, page 29. 
In addition to using the Perform skill, you can entertain people 
with sleight of hand, tumbling, tightrope walking, and spells 
(especially illusions). 
 
PROFESSION (WIS; TRAINED ONLY) 
You are trained in a livelihood or a professional role, such as 
apothecary, boater, bookkeeper, brewer, cook, driver, farmer, fisher, 
guide, herbalist, herder, hunter, innkeeper, lumberjack, miller, 
miner, porter, rancher, sailor, scribe, siege engineer, stablehand, 
tanner, teamster, woodcutter, or the like. 
Like Craft, Knowledge, and Perform, Profession is actually a 
number of separate skills. For instance, you could have the skill 
Profession (cook). Your ranks in that skill don’t affect any Profession 
(miller) or Profession (miner) checks you might make. You could 
have several Profession skills, each with its own ranks, each 
purchased as a separate skill. 
While a Craft skill represents ability in creating or making an 
item, a Profession skill represents an aptitude in a vocation requiring 
a broader range of less specific knowledge. To draw a modern 
analogy, if an occupation is a service industry, it’s probably a Pro-
fession skill. If it’s in the manufacturing 
sector, it’s probably a Craft skill 
Check: You can practice your trade and 
make a decent living, earning about half your 
Profession check result in gold pieces per 
week of dedicated work. You know how to 
use the tools of your trade, how to perform 
the profession’s daily tasks, how to supervise helpers, 
and how to handle common problems. For example, a 
sailor knows how to tie several basic knots, how to 
tend and repair sails, and how to stand a deck 
watch at sea. The DM sets DCs for specialized 
tasks. 
Action: Not applicable. A single check 
generally represents a week of work. 
Try Again:  Varies. An attempt to use a 
Profession skill to earn an income cannot be 
retried. You are stuck with whatever weekly wage your 
check result brought you. Another check may be made after a week 
to determine a new income for the next period of time. An attempt 
to accomplish some specific task can usually be retried. 
Untrained: Untrained laborers and assistants (that is, characters 
without any ranks in Profession) earn an average of 1 silver piece per 
day. 
 
RIDE (DEX) 
You can ride a mount, be it a horse, riding dog, griffon, dragon, or 
some other kind of creature suited for riding. If you attempt to ride a 
creature that is ill suited as a mount (such as most bipedal creatures), 
you take a –5 penalty on your Ride checks. 
Check: Typical riding actions don’t require checks. You can 
saddle, mount, ride, and dismount from a mount without a problem. 
The following tasks do require checks. 
 
Task Ride DC Task Ride DC 
Guide with knees 5 Leap 15 
Stay in saddle 5 Spur mount 15 
Fight with warhorse 10 Control mount in battle 20 
Cover 15 Fast mount or dismount 20 1 
Soft fall 15 
1 Armor check penalty applies.
 
Guide with Knees:  You can react instantly to guide your mount 
with your knees so that you can use both hands in combat. Make 
your Ride check at the start of your turn. If you fail, you can use only 
one hand this round because you need to use the other to control 
your mount. 
Stay in Saddle:  You can react instantly to try to avoid falling when 
your mount rears or bolts unexpectedly or when you take damage. 
This usage does not take an action. 
Fight with Warhorse:  If you direct your war-trained mount to 
attack in battle, you can still make your own attack or attacks 
normally. This usage is a free action. 
Cover: You can react instantly to drop down and hang alongside 
your mount, using it as cover. You can’t attack or cast spells while 
using your mount as cover. If you fail your Ride check, you don’t get 
the cover benefit. This usage does not take an action. 
Soft Fall:  You can react instantly to try to take no damage when 
you fall off a mount—when it is killed or when it falls, for example. 
If you fail your Ride check, you take 1d6 points of falling damage. 
This usage does not take an action. 
Leap: You can get your mount to leap obstacles as part of its 
movement. Use your Ride modifier or the mount’s Jump modifier, 
whichever is lower, to see how far the creature can jump. If you fail 
your Ride check, you fall off the mount when it leaps and take the 
appropriate falling damage (at least 1d6 points). This usage does not 
take an action, but is part of the mount’s movement. 
Spur Mount:  You can spur your mount to greater speed with a 
move action. A successful Ride check increases 
the mount’s speed by 10 feet for 1 round 
but deals 1 point of damage to the 
creature. You can use this ability 
every round, but each consecutive 
round of additional speed deals twice 
as much damage to the mount as the 
previous round (2 points, 4 points, 8 
points, and so on). 
Control Mount in Battle:  As a move 
action, you can attempt to control a 
light horse, pony, heavy horse, or 
other mount not trained for combat 
riding while in battle. If you fail the 
Ride check, you can do nothing else 
in that round. You do not need to roll for 
warhorses or warponies. 
Fast Mount or Dismount:  You can attempt to mount or dismount 
from a mount of up to one size category larger than yourself as a free 
action, provided that you still have a move action available that 
round. If you fail the Ride check, mounting or dismounting is a 
move action. You can’t use fast mount or dismount on a mount more 
than one size category larger than yourself. 
Action: Varies. Mounting or dismounting normally is a move 
action. Other checks are a move action, a free action, or no action at 
all, as noted above. 
Special: If you are riding bareback, you take a –5 penalty on Ride 
checks. 
If your mount has a military saddle (page 132), you get a +2 cir-
cumstance bonus on Ride checks related to staying in the saddle. 
The Ride skill is a prerequisite for the feats Mounted Archery, 
Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack, Spirited Charge, Trample. See 
the appropriate feat descriptions in Chapter 5: Feats for details. 
If you have the Animal Affinity feat, you get a +2 bonus on Ride 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Handle Animal, you get a 
+2 bonus on Ride checks. 
 
 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 