 
 81
SEARCH (INT) 
You can find secret doors, simple traps, hidden compartments, and 
other details not readily apparent. The Spot skill lets you notice 
something, such as a hiding rogue. The Search skill lets a character 
discern some small detail or irregularity through active effort. 
Search does not allow you to find complex traps unless you are a 
rogue (see Restriction, below). 
Check: Y o u  g e n e r a l l y  m u s t  b e  w i t h i n  1 0  f e e t  o f  t h e  o b j e c t  o r  
surface to be searched. The table below gives DCs for typical tasks 
involving the Search skill. 
 
Task Search DC 
Ransack a chest full of junk to find a certain item 10 
Notice a typical secret door or a simple trap 20 
Find a difficult nonmagical trap (rogue only)1 21 or higher 
Find a magic trap (rogue only)1 25 + level of spell 
 used to create trap 
Notice a well-hidden secret door 30 
Find a footprint Varies
2 
1 Dwarves (even if they are not rogues) can use Search to find traps 
built into or out of stone. 
2 A successful Search check can find a footprint or similar sign of a 
creature’s passage, but it won’t let you find or follow a trail. See the 
Track feat for the appropriate DC.
 
 
Action: It takes a full-round action to search a 5-foot-by-5-foot 
area or a volume of goods 5 feet on a side. 
Special: An elf has a +2 racial bonus on Search checks, and a half-
elf has a +1 racial bonus. An elf (but not a half-elf) who simply passes 
within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door can make a Search check 
to find that door. 
If you have the Investigator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Search 
checks. 
The spells explosive runes , fire trap , glyph of warding , symbol, and 
teleportation circle create magic traps that a rogue can find by making 
a successful Search check and then can attempt to disarm by using 
Disable Device. Identifying the location of a snare spell has a DC of 
23. Spike growth and spike stones create magic traps that can be found 
using Search, but against which Disable Device checks do not 
succeed. See the individual spell descriptions in Chapter 11: Spells 
for details. 
Active abjuration spells within 10 feet of each other for 24 hours 
or more create barely visible energy fluctuations. These fluctuations 
give you a +4 bonus on Search checks to locate such abjuration 
spells. 
Synergy: I f  y o u  h a v e  5  o r  m o r e  r a n k s  i n  S e a r c h ,  y o u  g e t  a  + 2  
bonus on Survival checks to find or follow tracks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (architecture and 
engineering), you get a +2 bonus on Search checks to find secret 
doors or hidden compartments. 
Restriction: While anyone can use Search to find a trap whose 
DC is 20 or lower, only a rogue can use Search to locate traps with 
higher DCs. ( Exception: The spell find traps  temporarily enables a 
cleric to use the Search skill as if he were a rogue.) 
A dwarf, even one who is not a rogue, can use the Search skill to 
find a difficult trap (one with a DC higher than 20) if the trap is built 
into or out of stone. He gains a +2 racial bonus on the Search check 
from his stonecunning ability. 
 
SENSE MOTIVE (WIS) 
Use this skill to tell when someone is bluffing you, to discern 
hidden messages in conversations, or to sense when someone is 
being magically influenced. This skill represents sensitivity to the 
body language, speech habits, and mannerisms of others. 
Check: A successful check lets you avoid being bluffed (see the 
Bluff skill, page 67). You can also use this skill to determine when 
“something is up” (that is, something odd is going on) or to assess 
someone’s trustworthiness. Your DM may decide to make your 
Sense Motive check secretly, so that you don’t necessarily know 
whether you were successful. 
 
Task Sense Motive DC 
Hunch 20 
Sense enchantment 25 or 15 
Discern secret message Varies  
 
Hunch: This use of the skill involves making a gut assessment of 
the social situation. You can get the feeling from another’s behavior 
that something is wrong, such as when you’re talking to an 
impostor. Alternatively, you can get the feeling that someone is 
trustworthy. 
Sense Enchantment:  You can tell that someone’s behavior is being 
influenced by an enchantment effect (by definition, a mind-affect-
ing effect), such as charm person, even if that person isn’t aware of it. 
The usual DC is 25, but if the target is dominated (see dominate 
person in Chapter 11: Spells), the DC is only 15 because of the lim-
ited range of the target’s activities. 
Discern Secret Message:  You may use Sense Motive to detect that a 
hidden message is being transmitted via the Bluff skill. In this case, 
your Sense Motive check is opposed by the Bluff check of the 
character transmitting the message. For each piece of information 
relating to the message that you are missing, you take a –2 penalty 
on your Sense Motive check. For example, if you eavesdrop on 
people planning to assassinate a visiting diplomat, you take a –2 
penalty on your check if you don’t know about the diplomat. If you 
succeed by 4 or less, you know that something hidden is being 
communicated, but you can’t learn anything specific about its 
content. If you beat the DC by 5 or more, you intercept and 
understand the message. If you fail by 4 or less, you don’t detect any 
hidden communication. If you fail by 5 or more, you infer some 
false information. 
Action: Trying to gain information with Sense Motive generally 
takes at least 1 minute, and you could spend a whole evening trying 
to get a sense of the people around you. 
Try Again: No, though you may make a Sense Motive check for 
each Bluff check made against you. 
Special: A ranger gains a bonus on Sense Motive checks when 
using this skill against a favored enemy (see page 47). 
If you have the Negotiator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Sense 
Motive checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Sense Motive, you get a 
+2 bonus on Diplomacy checks. 
 
SLEIGHT OF HAND (DEX; TRAINED ONLY; 
ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
You can cut or lift a purse and hide it on your person, palm an un-
attended object, hide a light weapon in your clothing, or perform 
some feat of legerdemain with an object no larger than a hat or a loaf 
of bread. 
Check: A DC 10 Sleight of Hand check lets you palm a coin-
sized, unattended object. Performing a minor feat of legerdemain, 
such as making a coin disappear, also has a DC of 10 unless an 
observer is determined to note where the item went. 
When you use this skill under close observation, your skill check 
is opposed by the observer’s Spot check. The observer’s success 
doesn’t prevent you from performing the action, just from doing it 
unnoticed. 
You can hide a small object (including a light weapon, such as a 
handaxe, or an easily concealed ranged weapon, such as a dart, sling, 
or hand crossbow) on your body. Your Sleight of Hand check is 
opposed by the Spot check of anyone observing you or the Search 
check of anyone frisking you. In the latter case, the searcher gains a 
+4 bonus on the Search check, since it’s generally easier to find such 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 