 
 83
Action: Varies, as noted above. 
Try Again: See above. 
Special: If you are a specialist wizard, you get a +2 bonus on 
Spellcraft checks when dealing with a spell or effect from your 
specialty school. You take a –5 penalty when dealing with a spell or 
effect from a prohibited school (and some tasks, such as learning a 
prohibited spell, are just impossible). 
If you have the Magical Aptitude feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Spellcraft checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (arcana), you 
get a +2 bonus on Spellcraft checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Magic Device, you get a +2 
bonus on Spellcraft checks to decipher spells on scrolls. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Spellcraft, you get a +2 bonus on 
Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. 
Additionally, certain spells allow you to gain information about 
magic, provided that you make a successful Spellcraft check as 
detailed in the spell description. (For example, see the detect magic  
spell, page 219.) 
 
SPOT (WIS) 
Use this skill to notice bandits waiting in ambush, to see a rogue 
lurking in the shadows, to see through a disguise, to read lips, or to 
see the monstrous centipede in the pile of trash. 
Check: The Spot skill is used primarily to detect characters or 
creatures who are hiding. Typically, your Spot check is opposed by 
the Hide check of the creature trying not to be seen. Sometimes a 
creature isn’t intentionally hiding but is still difficult to see, so a 
successful Spot check is necessary to notice it. 
A Spot check result higher than 20 generally lets you become 
aware of an invisible creature near you, though you can’t actually see 
it. 
Spot is also used to detect someone in disguise (see the Disguise 
skill, page 72), and to read lips when you can’t hear or understand 
what someone is saying. 
The Dungeon Master may call for Spot checks to determine the 
distance at which an encounter begins. A penalty applies on such 
checks, depending on the distance between the two individuals or 
groups, and an additional penalty may apply if the character making 
the Spot check is distracted (not concentrating on being observant). 
 
Condition Penalty 
Per 10 feet of distance –1 
Spotter distracted –5  
 
Read Lips: To understand what someone is saying by reading lips, 
you must be within 30 feet of the speaker, be able to see him or her 
speak, and understand the speaker’s language. (This use of the skill 
is language-dependent.) The base DC is 15, but it increases for 
complex speech or an inarticulate speaker. You must maintain a line 
of sight to the lips being read. 
If your Spot check succeeds, you can understand the general 
content of a minute’s worth of speaking, but you usually still miss 
certain details. If the check fails by 4 or less, you can’t read the 
speaker’s lips. If the check fails by 5 or more, you draw some incor-
rect conclusion about the speech. Your DM rolls your check secretly 
in this case, so that you don’t know whether you succeeded or 
missed by 5. 
Action: Varies. Every time you have a chance to spot something 
in a reactive manner (for example, when someone tries to sneak past 
you while hidden, or you move into a new area), you can make a 
Spot check without using an action. Trying to spot something you 
failed to see previously is a move action. To read lips, you must 
concentrate for a full minute before making a Spot check, and you 
can’t perform any other action (other than moving at up to half 
speed) during this minute. 
Try Again: Yes. You can try to spot something that you failed to 
see previously at no penalty. You can attempt to read lips once per 
minute. 
Special: A fascinated creature takes a –4 penalty on Spot checks 
made as reactions. 
If you have the Alertness feat, you get a +2 bonus on Spot checks. 
A ranger gains a bonus on Spot checks when using this skill 
against a favored enemy (see page 47). 
An elf has a +2 racial bonus on Spot checks because elves have 
keen senses. 
A half-elf has a +1 racial bonus on Spot checks. Her eyesight is 
good because of her elven heritage, but not as keen as that of a full 
elf. 
The master of a hawk familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, page 52) 
gains a +3 bonus on Spot checks in daylight or other lighted areas. 
The master of an owl familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, page 52) 
gains a +3 bonus on Spot checks in shadowy or other darkened areas. 
 
SURVIVAL (WIS) 
Use this skill to follow tracks, hunt wild game, guide a party safely 
through frozen wastelands, identify signs that owlbears live nearby, 
predict the weather, or avoid quicksand and other natural hazards. 
Check: You can keep yourself and others safe and fed in the wild. 
The table below gives the DCs for various tasks that require Survival 
checks. 
Survival does not allow you to follow difficult tracks unless you 
are a ranger or have the Track feat (see the Restriction section 
below). 
 
Survival DC  Task 
 10  Get along in the wild. Move up to one-half your 
  overland speed while hunting and foraging (no food 
  or water supplies needed). You can provide food and 
  water for one other person for every 2 points by which 
  your check result exceeds 10. 
 15 Gain a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saves against severe 
  weather while moving up to one-half your overland 
  speed, or gain a +4 bonus if you remain stationary. 
  You may grant the same bonus to one other character 
  for every 1 point by which your Survival check result 
  exceeds 15. 
 15  Keep from getting lost or avoid natural hazards, such 
  as quicksand. 
 15  Predict the weather up to 24 hours in advance. For 
  every 5 points by which your Survival check result 
  exceeds 15, you can predict the weather for one 
  additional day in advance. 
 Varies  Follow tracks (see the Track feat).  
 
Action: Varies. A single Survival check may represent activity 
over the course of hours or a full day. A Survival check made to find 
tracks is at least a full-round action, and it may take even longer at 
the DM’s discretion. 
Try Again: Varies. For getting along in the wild or for gaining the 
Fortitude save bonus noted in the table above, you make a Survival 
check once every 24 hours. The result of that check applies until the 
next check is made. To avoid getting lost or avoid natural hazards, 
you make a Survival check whenever the situation calls for one. 
Retries to avoid getting lost in a specific situation or to avoid a 
specific natural hazard are not allowed. For finding tracks, you can 
retry a failed check after 1 hour (outdoors) or 10 minutes(indoors) of 
searching. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 