 
 84 
Restriction: While anyone can use Survival to find tracks 
(regardless of the DC), or to follow tracks when the DC for the task 
is 10 or lower, only a ranger (or a character with the Track feat; see 
page 101) can use Survival to follow tracks when the task has a 
higher DC. 
Special: If you have 5 or more ranks in Survival, you can 
automatically determine where true north lies in relation to 
yourself. 
A ranger gains a bonus on Survival checks when using this skill to 
find or follow the tracks of a favored enemy (see page 47). 
If you have the Self-Sufficient feat, you get a +2 bonus on Survival 
checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Survival, you get a +2 
bonus on Knowledge (nature) checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (dungeoneering), you 
get a +2 bonus on Survival checks made while underground. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (nature), you get a +2 
bonus on Survival checks in aboveground natural environments 
(aquatic, desert, forest, hill, marsh, mountains, and plains). 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (geography), you get a 
+2 bonus on Survival checks made to keep from getting lost or to 
avoid natural hazards. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (the planes), you get a 
+2 bonus on Survival checks made while on other planes. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Search, you get a +2 bonus on 
Survival checks to find or follow tracks. 
 
SWIM (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
Using this skill, a land-based creature can swim, dive, navigate 
underwater obstacles, and so on. 
Check: Make a Swim check once per round while you are in the 
water. Success means you may swim at up to one-half your speed (as 
a full-round action) or at one-quarter your speed (as a move action). 
If you fail by 4 or less, you make no progress through the water. If 
you fail by 5 or more, you go underwater. 
If you are underwater, either because you failed a Swim check or 
because you are swimming underwater intentionally, you must hold 
your breath. You can hold your breath for a number of rounds equal 
to your Constitution score, but only if you do nothing other than 
take move actions or free actions. If you take a standard action or a 
full-round action (such as making an attack), the remainder of the 
duration for which you can hold your breath is reduced by 1 round. 
(Effectively, a character in combat can hold his or her breath only 
half as long as normal.) After that period of time, you must make a 
DC 10 Constitution check every round to continue holding your 
breath. Each round, the DC for that check increases by 1. If you fail 
the Constitution check, you begin to drown (see Suffocation and 
Drowning in the Dungeon Master’s Guide). 
The DC for the Swim check depends on the water, as given on the 
table below. 
 
Water Swim DC 
Calm water 10 
Rough water 15 
Stormy water 20 1 
1 You can’t take 10 on a Swim check in stormy water, even if you aren’t 
otherwise being threatened or distracted. 
 
Each hour that you swim, you must make a DC 20 Swim check or 
take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage from fatigue. 
Action: A successful Swim check allows you to swim one-quarter 
of your speed as a move action or one-half your speed as a full-round 
action. 
Special: Swim checks are subject to double the normal armor 
check penalty and encumbrance penalty (see pages 123 and 162). 
For instance, full plate incurs a –12 penalty on Swim checks instead 
of –6. 
If you have the Athletic feat, you get a +2 bonus on Swim checks. 
If you have the Endurance feat, you get a +4 bonus on Swim 
checks made to avoid taking nonlethal damage from fatigue. 
A creature with a swim speed can move through water at its 
indicated speed without making Swim checks. It gains a +8 racial 
bonus on any Swim check to perform a special action or avoid a 
hazard. The creature always can choose to take 10 on a Swim check, 
even if distracted or endangered when swimming. Such a creature 
can use the run action while swimming, provided that it swims in a 
straight line. 
 
TUMBLE (DEX; TRAINED ONLY; 
ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
You can dive, roll, somersault, flip, and so on. You can’t use this skill 
if your speed has been reduced by armor, excess equipment, or loot 
(see Table 9–2: Carrying Loads, page 162). 
Check: You can land softly when you fall or tumble past 
opponents. You can also tumble to entertain an audience (as though 
using the Perform skill). The DCs for various tasks involving the 
Tumble skill are given on the table below. 
 
Tumble DC  Task 
 15  Treat a fall as if it were 10 feet shorter than it really 
  is when determining damage. 
 15  Tumble at one-half speed as part of normal 
  movement, provoking no attacks of opportunity 
  while doing so. Failure means you provoke attacks 
  of opportunity normally. Check separately for each 
  opponent you move past, in the order in which you 
  pass them (player’s choice of order in case of a tie). 
  Each additional enemy after the first adds +2 to the 
  Tumble DC. 
 25  Tumble at one-half speed through an area occupied 
  by an enemy (over, under, or around the opponent) 
  as part of normal movement, provoking no attacks 
  of opportunity while doing so. Failure means you 
  stop before entering the enemy-occupied area and 
  provoke an attack of opportunity from that enemy. 
  Check separately for each opponent. Each additional 
  enemy after the first adds +2 to the Tumble DC.  
 
Obstructed or otherwise treacherous surfaces, such as natural cavern 
floors or undergrowth, are tough to tumble through. The DC for any 
Tumble check made to tumble into such a square is modified as 
indicated below. 
 
Surface Is . . . DC Modifier 
Lightly obstructed (scree, light rubble, shallow bog1, +2 
undergrowth) 
Severely obstructed (natural cavern floor, dense rubble, +5 
dense undergrowth) 
Lightly slippery (wet floor) +2 
Severely slippery (ice sheet) +5 
Sloped or angled +2 
1 Tumbling is impossible in a deep bog.
 
 
Accelerated Tumbling:  You try to tumble past or through enemies 
more quickly than normal. By accepting a –10 penalty on your 
Tumble checks, you can move at your full speed instead of one-half 
your speed. 
Action: Not applicable. Tumbling is part of movement, so a 
Tumble check is part of a move action. 
Try Again: Usually no. An audience, once it has judged a tumbler 
as an uninteresting performer, is not receptive to repeat 
performances. You can try to reduce damage from a fall as an instant 
reaction only once per fall. 
CHAPTER 4: 
SKILLS 