 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
feat is a special feature that either gives your character a 
new capability or improves one he or she already has. 
For example, Lidda (a halfling rogue) chooses to start 
with the Improved Initiative feat at 1st level. That feat 
gives her a +4 bonus to her initiative check results. At 
3rd level (see Table 3–2: Experience and Level-Dependent 
Benefits, page 22), she gains a new feat and chooses Dodge. This feat 
allows her to avoid the attacks of an opponent she selects by 
improving her Armor Class against that opponent. 
Unlike a skill, a feat has no ranks. A character either has a feat or 
does not. 
 
ACQUIRING FEATS 
Unlike skills, feats are not bought with points. A player simply 
chooses them for his or her character. Each character gets one feat 
upon creation. At 3rd level and every three levels thereafter (6th, 
9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th), he or she gains another feat (see Table 3–
2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). Feats are 
gained according to character level, regardless of individual class 
levels. 
Additionally, members of some classes get bonus feats as class 
features. These feats may be chosen from special lists (see Fighter 
Bonus Feats, below, and the individual class descriptions in Chapter 
3 for details). 
A human character also gets a bonus feat at 1st level, chosen by 
the player. This feat can be of any feat for which the character 
qualifies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PREREQUISITES 
Some feats have prerequisites. Your character must have the 
indicated ability score, class feature, feat, skill, base attack bonus, 
or other quality designated in order to select or use that feat. A 
character can gain a feat at the same level at which he or she 
gains the prerequisite. For example, at 3rd level, Krusk, the half-
orc barbarian, could spend 1 skill point on the Ride skill 
(gaining his first rank in Ride) and select the Mounted Combat 
feat at the same time. 
A character can’t use a feat if he or she has lost a prerequisite. 
For example, if your character’s Strength drops below 13 
because a ray of enfeeblement spell, he or she can’t use the Power 
Attack feat until the prerequisite is once again met. 
 
TYPES OF FEATS 
Some feats are general, meaning that no special rules govern 
them as a group. Others are item creation feats, which allow 
spellcasters to create magic items of all sorts. A metamagic 
feat lets a spellcaster prepare and cast a spell with greater 
effect, albeit as if the spell were a higher level than it 
actually is. 
 
FIGHTER BONUS FEATS 
Fighters gain bonus feats selected from a subset of the 
feat list presented in Table 5–1 (page 90). Any feat 
designated as a fighter feat can be selected as a fighter’s 
bonus feat. This designation does not restrict characters of 
other classes from selecting these feats, assuming that they 
meet any prerequisites. 
 
87