 
 88 
ITEM CREATION FEATS 
Spellcasters can use their personal power to create lasting magic 
items. Doing so, however, is draining. A spellcaster must put a little 
of himself or herself into every magic item he or she creates. 
An item creation feat lets a spellcaster create a magic item of a 
certain type. Regardless of the type of items they involve, the vari-
ous item creation feats all have certain features in common. 
XP Cost: Power and energy that the spellcaster would normally 
have is expended when making a magic item. The XP cost equals 
1/25 the cost of the item in gold pieces (see the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for item costs). A character cannot spend so much XP on an 
item that he or she loses a level. However, upon gaining enough XP 
to attain a new level, he or she can immediately expend XP on 
creating an item rather than keeping the XP to advance a level. 
Raw Materials Cost:  Creating a magic item requires costly 
components, most of which are consumed in the process. The cost 
of these materials equals half the cost of the item. 
For example, at 12th level, Mialee the wizard gains the feat Forge 
Ring, and she creates a ring of deflection +3 . The cost of the ring is 
18,000 gp, so it costs her 720 XP plus 9,000 gp to make. 
Using an item creation feat also requires access to a laboratory or 
magical workshop, special tools, and so on. A character generally has 
access to what he or she needs unless unusual circumstances apply 
(if the character is traveling far from home, for instance). 
Time: The time to create a magic item depends on the feat and 
the cost of the item. The minimum time is one day. 
Item Cost:  Brew Potion, Craft Wand, and Scribe Scroll create 
items that directly reproduce spell effects, and the power of these 
items depends on their caster level—that is, a spell from such an 
item has the power it would have if cast by a spellcaster of that level. 
A wand of fireball  at caster level 8th, for example, would create 
fireballs that deal 8d6 points of damage and have a range of 720 feet. 
The price of these items (and thus the XP cost and the cost of the 
raw materials) also depends on the caster level. The caster level must 
be high enough that the spellcaster creating the item can cast the 
spell at that level. To find the final price in each case, multiply the 
caster level by the spell level, then multiply the result by a constant, 
as shown below: 
Scrolls: Base price = spell level × caster level × 25 gp. 
Potions: Base price = spell level ×  caster level × 50 gp. 
Wands: Base price = spell level ×  caster level × 750 gp. 
A 0-level spell is considered to have a spell level of 1/2 for the 
purpose of this calculation. 
Extra Costs: Any potion, scroll, or wand that stores a spell with a 
costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commen-
surate cost. For potions and scrolls, the creator must expend the 
material component or pay the XP cost when creating the item. For 
a wand, the creator must expend fifty copies of the material 
component or pay fifty times the XP cost. 
Some magic items similarly incur extra costs in material 
components or XP, as noted in their descriptions. For example, a 
ring of three wishes  costs 15,000 XP in addition to its normal price (as 
many XP as it costs to cast wish three times). 
 
METAMAGIC FEATS 
As a spellcaster’s knowledge of magic grows, she can learn to cast 
spells in ways slightly different from the ways in which the spells 
were originally designed or learned. For example, a spellcaster can 
learn to cast a spell without having to say its verbal component, to 
cast a spell for greater effect, or even to cast it with nothing but a 
moment’s thought. Preparing and casting a spell in such a way is 
harder than normal but, thanks to metamagic feats, at least it is 
possible. 
For instance, at 3rd level, Mialee chooses to gain Silent Spell, the 
feat that allows her to cast a spell without its verbal component. The 
cost of doing so, however, is that in preparing the spell, she must use 
up a spell slot one spell level higher than the spell actually is. Thus, 
if she prepares charm person  as a silent spell, it takes up one of her 
2nd-level slots. It is still only a 1st-level spell, so the DC for the Will 
save against it does not go up. Mialee cannot prepare a 2nd-level 
spell as a silent spell because she would have to prepare it as a 3rd-
level spell, and she can’t use 3rd-level spell slots until she reaches 
5th level. 
Wizards and Divine Spellcasters:  Wizards and divine spell-
casters (clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers) must prepare their 
spells in advance. During preparation, the character chooses which 
spells to prepare with metamagic feats (and thus which ones take up 
higher-level spell slots than normal). 
Sorcerers and Bards:  Sorcerers and bards choose spells as they 
cast them. They can choose when they cast their spells whether to 
apply their metamagic feats to improve them. As with other 
spellcasters, the improved spell uses up a higher-level spell slot. But 
because the sorcerer or bard has not prepared the spell in a 
metamagic form in advance, he must apply the metamagic feat on 
the spot. Therefore, such a character must also take more time to 
cast a metamagic spell (one enhanced by a metamagic feat) than he 
does to cast a regular spell. If the spell’s normal casting time is 1 
action, casting a metamagic version is a full-round action for a 
sorcerer or bard. (This isn’t the same as a 1-round casting time, as 
described under Cast a Spell, page 143.) For a spell with a longer 
casting time, it takes an extra full-round action to cast the spell. 
Spontaneous Casting and Metamagic Feats:  A cleric spon-
taneously casting a cure or inflict spell can cast a metamagic version 
of it instead. For instance, an 11th-level cleric can swap out a 
prepared 6th-level spell to cast an empowered cure critical wounds  
spell. Extra time is also required in this case. Casting a 1-action 
metamagic spell spontaneously is a full-round action, and a spell 
with a longer casting time takes an extra full-round action to cast. 
Effects of Metamagic Feats on a Spell: In all ways, a metamagic 
spell operates at its original spell level, even though it is prepared 
and cast as a higher-level spell. Saving throw modifications are not 
changed unless stated otherwise in the feat description. The 
modifications made by these feats only apply to spells cast directly 
by the feat user. A spellcaster can’t use a metamagic feat to alter a 
spell being cast from a wand, scroll, or other device. 
Metamagic feats that eliminate components of a spell (such as 
Silent Spell and Still Spell) don’t eliminate the attack of opportunity 
provoked by casting a spell while threatened. However, casting a 
spell modified by Quicken Spell does not provoke an attack of 
opportunity. 
Metamagic feats cannot be used with all spells. See the specific 
feat descriptions for the spells that a particular feat can’t modify. 
Multiple Metamagic Feats on a Spell:  A spellcaster can apply 
multiple metamagic feats to a single spell. Changes to its level are 
cumulative. A silent, stilled version of charm person , for example, 
would be prepared and cast as a 3rd-level spell (a 1st-level spell, 
increased by one spell level for each of the metamagic feats). You 
can’t apply the same metamagic feat more than once to a single spell 
(for instance, you can’t cast a twice-empowered magic missile  to get 
+100% damage). 
Magic Items and Metamagic Spells:  With the right item cre-
ation feat, you can store a metamagic version of a spell in a scroll, 
potion, or wand. Level limits for potions and wands apply to the 
spell’s higher spell level (after the application of the metamagic feat). 
A character doesn’t need the metamagic feat to activate an item 
storing a metamagic version of a spell. 
Counterspelling Metamagic Spells: Whether or not a spell has 
been enhanced by a metamagic feat does not affect its vulnerability 
to counterspelling or its ability to counterspell another spell (see 
Counterspells, page 170). 
 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 