 
 89
FEAT DESCRIPTIONS 
Here is the format for feat descriptions. 
 
FEAT NAME [TYPE OF FEAT] 
Description of what the feat does or represents in plain language. 
Prerequisite: A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a 
minimum base attack bonus, a minimum number of ranks in one or 
more skills, or a class level that a character must have in order to 
acquire this feat. This entry is absent if a feat has no prerequisite. A 
feat may have more than one prerequisite. 
Benefit: What the feat enables the character (“you” in the feat 
description) to do. If a character has the same feat more than once, 
its benefits do not stack unless indicated otherwise in the descrip-
tion. In general, having a feat twice is the same as having it once. 
Normal: What a character who does not have this feat is limited 
to or restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no 
particular drawback, this entry is absent. 
Special: Additional facts about the feat that may be helpful when 
you decide whether to acquire the feat. 
 
ACROBATIC [GENERAL] 
You have excellent body awareness and coordination. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Jump checks and Tumble 
checks. 
 
AGILE [GENERAL] 
You are particularly flexible and poised. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Balance checks and Escape 
Artist checks. 
 
ALERTNESS [GENERAL] 
You have finely tuned senses. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Listen checks and Spot checks. 
Special: The master of a familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, page 
52) gains the benefit of the Alertness feat whenever the familiar is 
within arm’s reach. 
 
ANIMAL AFFINITY [GENERAL] 
You are good with animals. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal checks and 
Ride checks. 
 
ARMOR PROFICIENCY (HEAVY) [GENERAL] 
You are proficient with heavy armor (see Table 7–6: Armor and 
Shields, page 123). 
Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency 
(medium). 
Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
Special: Fighters, paladins, and clerics automatically have Armor 
Proficiency (heavy) as a bonus feat. They need not select it. 
 
ARMOR PROFICIENCY (LIGHT) [GENERAL] 
You are proficient with light armor (see Table 7–6: Armor and 
Shields, page 123). 
Benefit: When you wear a type of armor with which you are 
proficient, the armor check penalty for that armor applies only to 
Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Pick 
Pocket, and Tumble checks. 
Normal: A character who is wearing armor with which she is not 
proficient applies its armor check penalty to attack rolls and to all 
skill checks that involve moving, including Ride. 
Special: All characters except wizards, sorcerers, and monks 
automatically have Armor Proficiency (light) as a bonus feat. They 
need not select it. 
ARMOR PROFICIENCY (MEDIUM) 
[GENERAL] 
You are proficient with medium armor (see Table 7–6: Armor and 
Shields, page 123). 
Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (light). 
Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
Special: Fighters, barbarians, paladins, clerics, druids, and bards 
automatically have Armor Proficiency (medium) as a bonus feat. 
They need not select it. 
 
ATHLETIC [GENERAL] 
You have a knack for athletic endeavors. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Climb checks and Swim 
checks. 
 
AUGMENT SUMMONING [GENERAL] 
Your summoned creatures are more powerful than normal. 
Prerequisite: Spell Focus (conjuration). 
Benefit: Each creature you conjure with any summon spell gains a 
+4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution for the 
duration of the spell that summoned it. 
 
BLIND-FIGHT [GENERAL] 
You know how to fight in melee without being able to see your foes. 
Benefit: In melee, every time you miss because of concealment, 
you can reroll your miss chance percentile roll one time to see if you 
actually hit (see Concealment, page 152). 
An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you in 
melee. That is, you don’t lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, 
and the attacker doesn’t get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible 
(see Table 8–5: Attack Roll Modifiers and Table 8–6: Armor Class 
Modifiers, page 151). The invisible attacker’s bonuses do still apply 
for ranged attacks, however. 
You take only half the usual penalty to speed for being unable to 
see. Darkness and poor visibility in general reduces your speed to 
three-quarters normal, instead of one-half (see Table 9–4: Hampered 
Movement, page 163). 
Normal: Regular attack roll modifiers for invisible attackers 
trying to hit you (see Table 8–5: Attack Roll Modifiers, page 151) 
apply, and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC. The speed reduc-
tion for darkness and poor visibility (see Table 9–4: Hampered 
Movement, page 163) also applies. 
Special: The Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character who 
is the subject of a blink spell (see page 206). 
A fighter may select Blind-Fight as one of his fighter bonus feats 
(see page 38). 
 
BREW POTION [ITEM CREATION] 
You can create potions, which carry spells within themselves. See 
the Dungeon Master’s Guide for rules on potions. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 3rd. 
Benefit: You can create a potion of any 3rd-level or lower spell 
that you know and that targets one or more creatures. Brewing a 
potion takes one day. When you create a potion, you set the caster 
level, which must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no 
higher than your own level. The base price of a potion is its spell 
level ×  its caster level ×  50 gp. To brew a potion, you must spend 
1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one 
half this base price. 
When you create a potion, you make any choices that you would 
normally make when casting the spell. Whoever drinks the potion is 
the target of the spell. 
Any potion that stores a spell with a costly material component or 
an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs 
derived from the base price, you must expend the material 
component or pay the XP when creating the potion. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 