 
 93
Benefit: You can create any wondrous item whose prerequisites 
you meet (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for prerequisites and other 
information on wondrous items). Enchanting a wondrous item 
takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its price. To enchant a wondrous 
item, you must spend 1/25 of the item’s price in XP and use up raw 
materials costing half of this price. 
You can also mend a broken wondrous item if it is one that you 
could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and 
half the time it would take to craft that item in the first place. 
Some wondrous items incur extra costs in material components 
or XP, as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to 
those derived from the item’s base price. You must pay such a cost to 
create an item or to mend a broken one. 
 
DECEITFUL [GENERAL] 
You have a knack for disguising the truth. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Disguise checks and Forgery 
checks. 
 
DEFLECT ARROWS [GENERAL] 
You can deflect incoming arrows, as well as crossbow bolts, spears, 
and other projectile or thrown weapons. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike. 
Benefit: You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) 
to use this feat. Once per round when you would normally be hit 
with a ranged weapon, you may deflect it so that you take no damage 
from it. You must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed. 
Attempting to deflect a ranged weapon doesn’t count as an action. 
Unusually massive ranged weapons, such as boulders hurled by 
giants, and ranged attacks generated by spell effects, such as Melf’s 
acid arrow, can’t be deflected. 
Special: A monk may select Deflect Arrows as a bonus feat at 2nd 
level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites. 
A fighter may select Deflect Arrows as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
DEFT HANDS [GENERAL] 
You have exceptional manual dexterity. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Sleight of Hand checks and 
Use Rope checks. 
 
DIEHARD [GENERAL] 
You can remain conscious after attacks that would fell others. 
Prerequisite: Endurance. 
Benefit: When reduced to between –1 and –9 hit points, you 
automatically become stable. You don’t have to roll d% to see if you 
lose 1 hit point each round. 
When reduced to negative hit points, you may choose to act as if 
you were disabled, rather than dying. You must make this decision 
as soon as you are reduced to negative hit points (even if it isn’t your 
turn). If you do not choose to act as if you were disabled, you 
immediately fall unconscious. 
When using this feat, you can take either a single move or stan-
dard action each turn, but not both, and you cannot take a full-round 
action. You can take a move action without further injuring yourself, 
but if you perform any standard action (or any other action the DM 
deems as strenuous, including some free actions, such as casting a 
quickened spell) you take 1 point of damage after completing the 
act. If you reach –10 hit points, you immediately die. 
Normal: A character without this feat who is reduced to between 
–1 and –9 hit points is unconscious and dying, as described in 
Chapter 8: Combat. 
 
DILIGENT [GENERAL] 
Your meticulousness allows you to analyze minute details that 
others miss. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Appraise checks and Decipher 
Script checks. 
 
DODGE [GENERAL] 
You are adept at dodging blows. 
Prerequisite: Dex 13. 
Benefit: During your action, you designate an opponent and 
receive a +1 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks from that 
opponent. You can select a new opponent on any action. 
A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor 
Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge 
bonuses (such as this one and a dwarf’s racial bonus on dodge 
attempts against giants) stack with each other, unlike most other 
types of bonuses. 
Special: A fighter may select Dodge as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
EMPOWER SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells to greater effect. 
Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are 
increased by one-half. An empowered spell deals half again as much 
damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, affects half 
again as many targets, and so forth, as appropriate. For example, an 
empowered magic missile  deals 1-1/2 times its normal damage (roll 
1d4+1 and multiply the result by 1-1/2 for each missile). Saving 
throws and opposed rolls (such as the one you make when you cast 
dispel magic ) are not affected, nor are spells without random 
variables. An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher 
than the spell’s actual level. 
 
ENDURANCE [GENERAL] 
You are capable of amazing feats of stamina. 
Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: 
Swim checks made to resist nonlethal damage (see page 84), 
Constitution checks made to continue running (see page 144), 
Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from a forced 
march (see page 164), Constitution checks made to hold your breath 
(see page 84), Constitution checks 
made to avoid nonlethal damage 
from starvation or thirst (see 
page 304 of the Dun-
geon Master’s Guide ), 
Fortitude saves made to avoid 
nonlethal damage from hot or 
cold environments (see pages 
302 and 303 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide ), and Forti-
tude saves made to resist 
damage from suffocation 
(see page 304 of the Dun-
geon Master’s Guide ). Also, 
you may sleep in light 
or medium armor 
without becoming 
fatigued. 
Normal: A 
character 
without this 
feat who 
sleeps in 
medium 
Illus. by J. Foster 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 