 
 94 
or heavier armor is automatically fatigued the next day. 
Special: A ranger automatically gains Endurance as a bonus feat 
at 3rd level (see page 48). He need not select it. 
 
ENLARGE SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells farther than normal. 
Benefit: You can alter a spell with a range of close, medium, or 
long to increase its range by 100%. An enlarged spell with a range of 
close now has a range of 50 ft. + 5 ft./level, while medium-range 
spells have a range of 200 ft. + 20 ft./level and long-range spells have 
a range of 800 ft. + 80 ft./level. An enlarged spell uses up a spell slot 
one level higher than the spell’s actual level. 
Spells whose ranges are not defined by distance, as well as spells 
whose ranges are not close, medium, or long, do not have increased 
ranges. 
 
ESCHEW MATERIALS [GENERAL] 
You can cast spells without relying on material components. 
Benefit: You can cast any spell that has a material component 
costing 1 gp or less without needing that component. (The casting of 
the spell still provokes attacks of opportunity as normal.) If the spell 
requires a material component that costs more than 1 gp, you must 
have the material component at hand to cast the spell, just as 
normal. 
 
EXOTIC WEAPON PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 
Choose a type of exotic weapon, such as dire flail or shuriken (see 
Table 7–5: Weapons, page 116, for a list of exotic weapons). You 
understand how to use that type of exotic weapon in combat. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1 (plus Str 13 for bastard sword 
or dwarven waraxe). 
Benefit: You make attack rolls with the weapon normally. 
Normal: A character who uses a weapon with which he or she is 
not proficient takes a –4 penalty on attack rolls. 
Special: You can gain Exotic Weapon Proficiency multiple times. 
Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of exotic 
weapon. Proficiency with the bastard sword or the dwarven waraxe 
has an additional prerequisite of Str 13. 
A fighter may select Exotic Weapon Proficiency as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38) 
EXTEND SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells that last longer than normal. 
Benefit: An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. A spell 
with a duration of concentration, instantaneous, or permanent is not 
affected by this feat. An extended spell uses up a spell slot one level 
higher than the spell’s actual level. 
 
EXTRA TURNING [GENERAL] 
You can turn or rebuke creatures more often than normal. 
Prerequisite: Ability to turn or rebuke creatures. 
Benefit: Each time you take this feat, you can use your ability to 
turn or rebuke creatures four more times per day than normal. 
If you have the ability to turn or rebuke more than one kind of 
creature (such as a good-aligned cleric with access to the Fire 
domain, who can turn undead and water creatures and can also 
rebuke fire creatures), each of your turning or rebuking abilities 
gains four additional uses per day. 
Normal: Without this feat, a character can typically turn or 
rebuke undead (or other creatures) a number of times per day equal 
to 3 + his or her Charisma modifier. 
Special: You can gain Extra Turning multiple times. Its effects 
stack. Each time you take the feat, you can use each of your turning 
or rebuking abilities four additional times per day. 
 
FAR SHOT [GENERAL] 
You can get greater distance out of a ranged weapon. 
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 
Benefit: When you use a projectile weapon, such as a bow, its 
range increment increases by one-half (multiply by 1-1/2). When 
you use a thrown weapon, its range increment is doubled. 
Special: A fighter may select Far Shot as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
FORGE RING [ITEM CREATION] 
You can create magic rings, which have varied magical effects. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 12th. 
Benefit: You can create any ring whose prerequisites you meet 
(see the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for prerequisites and other infor-
mation on rings). Crafting a ring takes one day for each 1,000 gp in 
its base price. To craft a ring, you must spend 1/25 of its base price in 
XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base price. 
You can also mend a broken ring if it is one that you could make. 
Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time 
it would take to forge that ring in the first place. 
Some magic rings incur extra costs in material components or XP, 
as noted in their descriptions. For example, a ring of three wishes costs 
15,000 XP in addition to costs derived from its base price (as many 
XP as it costs to cast wish three times). You must pay such a cost to 
forge such a ring or to mend a broken one. 
 
GREAT CLEAVE [GENERAL] 
You can wield a melee weapon with such power that you can strike 
multiple times when you fell your foes. 
Prerequisites: Str 13, Cleave, Power Attack, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: This feat works like Cleave, except that there is no limit 
to the number of times you can use it per round. 
Special: A fighter may select Great Cleave as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
GREAT FORTITUDE [GENERAL] 
You are tougher than normal. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws. 
 
GREATER SPELL FOCUS [GENERAL] 
Choose a school of magic to which you already have applied the 
Spell Focus feat. Your spells of that school are now even more potent 
than before. 
Benefit: Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws 
against spells from the school of magic you select. This bonus stacks 
with the bonus from Spell Focus. 
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic 
to which you already have applied the Spell Focus feat. 
 
GREATER SPELL PENETRATION [GENERAL] 
Your spells are remarkably potent, breaking through spell resistance 
more readily than normal. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 