 
 95
Prerequisite: Spell Penetration. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster 
level) made to overcome a creature’s spell resistance. This bonus 
stacks with the one from Spell Penetration (see page 100). 
 
GREATER TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING 
[GENERAL] 
You are a master at fighting two-handed. 
Prerequisites: Dex 19, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, Two-
Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +11. 
Benefit: You get a third attack with your off-hand weapon, albeit 
at a –10 penalty. 
Special: A fighter may select Greater Two-Weapon Fighting as 
one of his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
An 11th-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat 
style is treated as having Greater Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he 
does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing 
light or no armor (see page 48). 
 
GREATER WEAPON FOCUS [GENERAL] 
Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe, for which you have 
already selected Weapon Focus. You can also choose unarmed strike 
or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat. You are 
especially good at using this weapon. 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon Focus 
with selected weapon, fighter level 8th. 
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using 
the selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses on attack 
rolls, including the one from Weapon Focus (see below). 
Special: You can gain Greater Weapon Focus multiple times. Its 
effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new 
type of weapon. 
A fighter must have Greater Weapon Focus with a given weapon 
to gain the Greater Weapon Specialization feat for that weapon.  
A fighter may select Greater Weapon Focus as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 
[GENERAL] 
Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe, for which you have 
already selected Weapon Specialization. You can also choose 
unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat. 
You deal extra damage when using this weapon. 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Greater 
Weapon Focus with selected weapon, Weapon Focus with selected 
weapon, Weapon Specialization with selected weapon, fighter level 
12th. 
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make using 
the selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses on 
damage rolls, including the one from Weapon Specialization (see 
below). 
Special: You can gain Greater Weapon Specialization multiple 
times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies 
to a new type of weapon. 
A fighter may select Greater Weapon Specialization as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
HEIGHTEN SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast a spell as if it were a higher-level spell than it actually is. 
Benefit: A heightened spell has a higher spell level than normal 
(up to a maximum of 9th level). Unlike other metamagic feats, 
Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the spell that 
it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as saving 
throw DCs and ability to penetrate a lesser globe of invulnerability ) are 
calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened spell is 
as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective level. For 
example, a cleric could prepare hold person  as a 4th-level spell 
(instead of a 2nd-level spell), and it would in all ways be treated as a 
4th-level spell. 
 
IMPROVED BULL RUSH [GENERAL] 
You know how to push opponents back. 
Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 
Benefit: When you perform a bull rush (page 154), you do not 
provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender. You also gain a 
+4 bonus on the opposed Strength check you make to push back the 
defender. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Bull Rush as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED COUNTERSPELL [GENERAL] 
You understand the nuances of magic to such an extent that you can 
counter your opponent’s spells with great efficiency. 
Benefit: When counterspelling, you may use a spell of the same 
school that is one or more spell levels higher than the target spell. 
Normal: Without this feat, you may counter a spell only with the 
same spell or with a spell specifically designated as countering the 
target spell. 
 
IMPROVED CRITICAL [GENERAL] 
Choose one type of weapon, such as longsword or greataxe. With 
that weapon, you know how to hit where it hurts. 
Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8. 
Benefit: When using the weapon you selected, your threat range 
is doubled. For example, a longsword usually threatens a critical hit 
on a roll of 19–20 (two numbers). If a character using a longsword 
has Improved Critical (longsword), the threat range becomes 17–20 
(four numbers). 
Special: You can gain Improved Critical multiple times. The 
effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new 
type of weapon. 
This effect doesn’t stack with any other effect that expands the 
threat range of a weapon (such as the keen edge spell). 
A fighter may select Improved Critical as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED DISARM [GENERAL] 
You know how to disarm opponents in melee combat. 
Prerequisites: Int 13, Combat Expertise. 
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you 
attempt to disarm an opponent, nor does the opponent have a 
chance to disarm you. You also gain a +4 bonus on the opposed 
attack roll you make to disarm your opponent. 
Normal: See the normal disarm rules, page 155. 
Special: A fighter may select Improved Disarm as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
A monk may select Improved Disarm as a bonus feat at 6th level, 
even if she does not meet the prerequisites. 
 
IMPROVED FEINT [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at misdirecting your opponent’s attention in combat. 
Prerequisites: Int 13, Combat Expertise. 
Benefit: You can make a Bluff check to feint in combat as a move 
action. 
Normal: Feinting in combat is a standard action. 
A fighter may select Improved Feint as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
IMPROVED GRAPPLE [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at grappling opponents. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike. 
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you 
make a touch attack to start a grapple. You also gain a +4 bonus on all 
grapple checks, regardless of whether you started the grapple. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 