 
 97
Special: A monk automatically gains Improved Unarmed Strike 
as a bonus feat at 1st level. She need not select it. 
A fighter may select Improved Unarmed Strike as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
INVESTIGATOR [GENERAL] 
You have a knack for finding information. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Gather Information checks 
and Search checks. 
 
IRON WILL [GENERAL] 
You have a stronger will than normal. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Will saving throws. 
 
LEADERSHIP [GENERAL] 
You are the sort of person others want to follow, and you have done 
some work attempting to recruit cohorts and followers. 
Prerequisite: Character level 6th. 
Benefit: You can attract loyal companions and 
devoted followers, subordinates who assist you. Your DM 
has information on what sort of cohort and how many 
followers you can recruit. 
Special: Check with your DM before selecting this feat, and work 
with your DM to determine an appropriate cohort and followers for 
your character (the Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on 
cohorts and followers). 
 
LIGHTNING REFLEXES [GENERAL] 
You have faster than normal reflexes. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws. 
 
MAGICAL APTITUDE [GENERAL] 
You have a knack for magical endeavors. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Spellcraft checks and Use 
Magic Device checks. 
 
MANYSHOT [GENERAL] 
You can fire multiple arrows simultaneously against a nearby target. 
Prerequisites: Dex 17, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, base attack 
bonus +6 
Benefit: As a standard action, you may fire two arrows at a single 
opponent within 30 feet. Both arrows use the same attack roll (with 
a –4 penalty) to determine success and deal damage normally (but 
see Special). 
For every five points of base attack bonus you have above +6, you 
may add one additional arrow to this attack, to a maximum of four 
arrows at a base attack bonus of +16. However, each arrow after the 
second adds a cumulative –2 penalty on the attack roll (for a total 
penalty of –6 for three arrows and –8 for four). 
Damage reduction and other resistances apply separately against 
each arrow fired. 
Special: Regardless of the number of arrows you fire, you apply 
precision-based damage (such as sneak attack damage) only once. If 
you score a critical hit, only the first arrow fired deals critical 
damage; all others deal regular damage. 
A fighter may select Manyshot as one of his fighter bonus feats 
(see page 38). 
A 6th-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style is 
treated as having Manyshot even if he does not have the 
prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or no armor 
(see page 48). 
 
MARTIAL WEAPON PROFICIENCY 
[GENERAL] 
Choose a type of martial weapon, such as a longbow 
(see Table 7–5: Weapons, page 116, for a list of martial 
weapons). You understand how to use that type of 
martial weapon in combat. 
Use this feat to expand the 
list of weapons with which 
you are proficient beyond the basic list in your 
class description. 
Benefit: You make attack rolls with the selected 
weapon normally. 
Normal: When using a weapon with which you are 
not proficient, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls. 
Special: Barbarians, fighters, paladins, and rangers are 
proficient with all martial weapons. They need not select 
this feat. 
You can gain Martial Weapon Proficiency multiple 
times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of 
weapon.  
A cleric who chooses the War domain automatically gains the 
Martial Weapon Proficiency feat related to his deity’s favored 
weapon as a bonus feat, if the weapon is a martial one. He need not 
select it. 
A sorcerer or wizard who casts the spell Tenser’s transformation on 
himself or herself gains proficiency with all martial weapons for the 
duration of the spell. 
 
MAXIMIZE SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells to maximum effect. 
Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of a spell modified by this 
feat are maximized. A maximized spell deals maximum damage, 
cures the maximum number of hit points, affects the maximum 
number of targets, etc., as appropriate. For example, a maximized 
fireball deals 6 points of damage per caster level (up to a maximum of 
60 points of damage at 10th caster level). Saving throws and opposed 
rolls (such as the one you make when you cast dispel magic) are not 
affected, nor are spells without random variables. A maximized spell 
uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell’s actual level. 
Illus. by J. Jarvis 
Attacking with two arrows,
thanks to the Manyshot feat. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 