 
 98 
An empowered, maximized spell gains the separate benefits of 
each feat: the maximum result plus one-half the normally rolled 
result. An empowered, maximized fireball cast by a 15th-level wizard 
deals points of damage equal to 60 plus one half of 10d6. 
 
MOBILITY [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at dodging past opponents and avoiding blows. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge. 
Benefit: You get a +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks 
of opportunity caused when you move out of or within a threatened 
area. A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to 
Armor Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Dodge 
bonuses (such as this one and a dwarf’s racial bonus on dodge 
attempts against giants) stack with each other, unlike most types of 
bonuses. 
Special: A fighter may select Mobility as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
MOUNTED ARCHERY [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at using ranged weapons while mounted. 
Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat. 
Benefit: The penalty you take when using a ranged weapon while 
mounted is halved: –2 instead of –4 if your mount is taking a double 
move, and –4 instead of –8 if your mount is running (see Mounted 
Combat, page 157). 
Special: A fighter may select Mounted Archery as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
MOUNTED COMBAT [GENERAL] 
You are skilled in mounted combat. 
Prerequisite: Ride 1 rank. 
Benefit: Once per round when your mount is hit in combat, you 
may attempt a Ride check (as a reaction) to negate the hit. The hit is 
negated if your Ride check result is greater than the opponent’s 
attack roll. (Essentially, the Ride check result becomes the mount’s 
Armor Class if it’s higher than the mount’s regular AC.) 
Special: A fighter may select Mounted Combat as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
NATURAL SPELL [GENERAL] 
You can cast spells while in a wild shape. 
Prerequisites: Wis 13, wild shape ability. 
Benefit: You can complete the verbal and somatic components of 
spells while in a wild shape. For example, while in the form of a 
hawk, you could substitute screeches and gestures with your talons 
for the normal verbal and somatic components of a spell. You can 
also use any material components or focuses you possess, even if 
such items are melded within your current form. This feat does not 
permit the use of magic items while you are in a form that could not 
ordinarily use them, and you do not gain the ability to speak while 
in a wild shape. 
 
NEGOTIATOR [GENERAL] 
You are good at gauging and swaying attitudes. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Diplomacy checks and Sense 
Motive checks. 
 
NIMBLE FINGERS [GENERAL] 
You are adept at manipulating small, delicate objects. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Disable Device checks and 
Open Lock checks. 
 
PERSUASIVE [GENERAL] 
You have a way with words and body language. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Bluff checks and Intimidate 
checks. 
POINT BLANK SHOT [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at making well-placed shots with ranged weapons at 
close range. 
Benefit: You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with 
ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet. 
Special: A fighter may select Point Blank Shot as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
POWER ATTACK [GENERAL] 
You can make exceptionally powerful melee attacks. 
Prerequisite: Str 13. 
Benefit: On your action, before making attack rolls for a round, 
you may choose to subtract a number from all melee attack rolls and 
add the same number to all melee damage rolls. This number may 
not exceed your base attack bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus 
on damage apply until your next turn. 
Special: If you attack with a two-handed weapon, or with a one-
handed weapon wielded in two hands, instead add twice the number 
subtracted from your attack rolls. You can’t add the bonus from 
Power Attack to the damage dealt with a light weapon (except with 
unarmed strikes or natural weapon attacks), even though the 
penalty on attack rolls still applies. (Normally, you treat a double 
weapon as a one-handed weapon and a light weapon. If you choose 
to use a double weapon like a two-handed weapon, attacking with 
only one end of it in a round, you treat it as a two-handed weapon.) 
A fighter may select Power Attack as one of his fighter bonus feats 
(see page 38). 
 
PRECISE SHOT [GENERAL] 
You are skilled at timing and aiming ranged attacks. 
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 
Benefit: You can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an opponent 
engaged in melee without taking the standard –4 penalty on your 
attack roll (see Shooting or Throwing into a Melee, page 140). 
Special: A fighter may select Precise Shot as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
QUICK DRAW [GENERAL] 
You can draw weapons with startling speed. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: You can draw a weapon as a free action instead of as a 
move action. You can draw a hidden weapon (see the Sleight of 
Hand skill, page 81) as a move action. 
A character who has selected this feat may throw weapons at his 
full normal rate of attacks (much like a character with a bow). 
Normal: Without this feat, you may draw a weapon as a move 
action, or (if your base attack bonus is +1 or higher) as a free action 
as part of movement (see page 142). Without this feat, you can draw 
a hidden weapon as a standard action. 
Special: A fighter may select Quick Draw as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
QUICKEN SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast a spell with a moment’s thought. 
Benefit: Casting a quickened spell is a free action. You can per-
form another action, even casting another spell, in the same round 
as you cast a quickened spell. You may cast only one quickened spell 
per round. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 full-round 
action cannot be quickened. A quickened spell uses up a spell slot 
four levels higher than the spell’s actual level. Casting a quickened 
spell doesn’t provoke an attack of opportunity. 
Special: This feat can’t be applied to any spell cast spontaneously 
(including sorcerer spells, bard spells, and cleric or druid spells cast 
spontaneously), since applying a metamagic feat to a spontaneously 
cast spell automatically increases the casting time to a full-round 
action. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 