 
 101
Special: A fighter may select Spring Attack as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
STEALTHY [GENERAL] 
You are particularly good at avoiding notice. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Hide checks and Move 
Silently checks. 
 
STILL SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells without gestures. 
Benefit: A stilled spell can be cast with no somatic components. 
Spells without somatic components are not affected. A stilled spell 
uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level. 
 
STUNNING FIST [GENERAL] 
You know how to strike opponents in vulnerable areas. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Wis 13, Improved Unarmed Strike, base 
attack bonus +8. 
Benefit: You must declare that you are using this feat before you 
make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). 
Stunning Fist forces a foe damaged by your unarmed attack to make 
a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your 
Wis modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. A defender 
who fails this saving throw is stunned for 1 round (until just before 
your next action). A stunned character can’t act, loses any Dexterity 
bonus to AC, and takes a –2 penalty to AC. You may attempt a 
stunning attack once per day for every four levels you have attained 
(but see Special), and no more than once per round. Constructs, 
oozes, plants, undead, incorporeal creatures, and creatures immune 
to critical hits cannot be stunned. 
Special: A monk may select Stunning Fist as a bonus feat at 1st 
level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites. A monk who 
selects this feat may attempt a stunning attack a number of times per 
day equal to her monk level, plus one more time per day for every 
four levels she has in classes other than monk. 
A fighter may select Stunning Fist as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
TOUGHNESS [GENERAL] 
You are tougher than normal. 
Benefit: You gain +3 hit points. 
Special: A character may gain this feat multiple times. Its effects 
stack. 
 
TOWER SHIELD PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 
You are proficient with tower shields. 
Prerequisite: Shield Proficiency. 
Benefit: You can use a tower shield and suffer only the standard 
penalties (see Table 7–6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 
Normal: A character who is using a shield with which he or she 
is not proficient takes the shield’s armor check penalty on attack 
rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving, including Ride. 
Special: Fighters automatically have Tower Shield Proficiency as 
a bonus feat. They need not select it. 
 
TRACK [GENERAL] 
You can follow the trails of creatures and characters across most 
types of terrain. 
Benefit: To find tracks or to follow them for 1 mile requires a 
successful Survival check. You must make another Survival check 
every time the tracks become difficult to follow, such as when other 
tracks cross them or when the tracks backtrack and diverge. 
You move at half your normal speed (or at your normal speed 
with a –5 penalty on the check, or at up to twice your normal speed 
with a –20 penalty on the check). The DC depends on the surface 
and the prevailing conditions, as given on the table below: 
 
Surface Survival DC Surface Survival DC 
Very soft ground 5 Firm ground 15 
Soft ground 10 Hard ground 20  
 
Very Soft Ground:  Any surface (fresh snow, thick dust, wet mud) 
that holds deep, clear impressions of footprints. 
Soft Ground:  Any surface soft enough to yield to pressure, but 
firmer than wet mud or fresh snow, in which a creature leaves 
frequent but shallow footprints. 
Firm Ground: Most normal outdoor surfaces (such as lawns, fields, 
woods, and the like) or exceptionally soft or dirty indoor surfaces 
(thick rugs and very dirty or dusty floors). The creature might leave 
some traces (broken branches or tufts of hair), but it leaves only 
occasional or partial footprints. 
Hard Ground: Any surface that doesn’t hold footprints at all, such 
as bare rock or an indoor floor. Most streambeds fall into this 
category, since any footprints left behind are obscured or washed 
away. The creature leaves only traces (scuff marks or displaced 
pebbles).  
Several modifiers may apply to the Survival check, as given on the 
table below. 
 
Condition Survival DC Modifier 
Every three creatures in the group being tracked –1 
Size of creature or creatures being tracked:1  
Fine +8 
Diminutive +4 
Tiny +2 
Small +1 
Medium +0 
Large –1 
Huge –2 
Gargantuan –4 
Colossal –8 
Every 24 hours since the trail was made +1 
Every hour of rain since the trail was made +1 
Fresh snow cover since the trail was made +10 
Poor visibility:2  
Overcast or moonless night +6 
Moonlight +3 
Fog or precipitation +3 
Tracked party hides trail (and moves at half speed) +5 
1 For a group of mixed sizes, apply only the modifier for the largest size 
category. 
2 Apply only the largest modifier from this category.
 
 
If you fail a Survival check, you can retry after 1 hour (outdoors) or 
10 minutes (indoors) of searching. 
Normal: Without this feat, you can use the Survival skill to find 
tracks, but you can follow them only if the DC for the task is 10 or 
lower. Alternatively, you can use the Search skill to find a footprint 
or similar sign of a creature’s passage using the DCs given above, but 
you can’t use Search to follow tracks, even if someone else has 
already found them. 
Special: A ranger automatically has Track as a bonus feat. He 
need not select it. 
This feat does not allow you to find or follow the tracks made by a 
subject of a pass without trace spell. 
 
TRAMPLE [GENERAL] 
You are trained in using your mount to knock down opponents. 
Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat. 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 