 
 102 
Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent while 
mounted, your target may not choose to avoid you. Your mount may 
make one hoof attack against any target you knock down, gaining 
the standard +4 bonus on attack rolls against prone targets (see 
Overrun, page 157). 
Special: A fighter may select Trample as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 
 
TWO-WEAPON DEFENSE [GENERAL] 
Your two-weapon fighting style bolsters your defense as well as your 
offense. 
Prerequisites: Dex 15, Two-Weapon Fighting. 
Benefit: When wielding a double weapon or two weapons (not 
including natural weapons or unarmed strikes), you gain a +1 shield 
bonus to your AC. 
When you are fighting defensively or using the total defense 
action, this shield bonus increases to +2. 
Special: A fighter may select Two-Weapon Defense as one of his 
fighter bonus feats. 
 
TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING [GENERAL] 
You can fight with a weapon in each hand. You can make one extra 
attack each round with the second weapon. 
Prerequisite: Dex 15. 
Benefit: Your penalties on attack rolls for fighting with two 
weapons are reduced. The penalty for your primary hand lessens by 
2 and the one for your off hand lessens by 6. 
Normal: See Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160, and Table 8–10: 
Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties, page 160. 
Special: A 2nd-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon 
combat style is treated as having Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he 
does not have the prerequisite for it, but only when he is wearing 
light or no armor (see page 48). 
A fighter may select Two-Weapon Fighting as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
WEAPON FINESSE [GENERAL] 
You are especially skilled at using weapons that can benefit as much 
from Dexterity as from Strength. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 
Benefit: With a light weapon, rapier, whip, or spiked chain made 
for a creature of your size category, you may use your Dexterity 
modifier instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls. If you 
carry a shield, its armor check penalty applies to your attack rolls. 
Special: A fighter may select Weapon Finesse as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
Natural weapons are always considered light weapons. 
 
WEAPON FOCUS [GENERAL] 
Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe. You can also choose 
unarmed strike or grapple (or ray, if you are a spellcaster) as your 
weapon for purposes of this feat. You are especially good at using 
this weapon. (If you have chosen ray, you are especially good with 
rays, such as the one produced by the ray of frost spell.) 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, base attack 
bonus +1. 
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using 
the selected weapon. 
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon. 
A fighter may select Weapon Focus as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). He must have Weapon Focus with a weapon to 
gain the Weapon Specialization feat for that weapon. 
 
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION [GENERAL] 
Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe, for which you have 
already selected the Weapon Focus feat. You can also choose 
unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat. 
You deal extra damage when using this weapon. 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon Focus 
with selected weapon, fighter level 4th. 
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make using 
the selected weapon. 
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon. 
A fighter may select Weapon Specialization as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 
 
WHIRLWIND ATTACK [GENERAL] 
You can strike nearby opponents in an amazing, spinning attack. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Int 13, Combat Expertise, Dodge, 
Mobility, Spring Attack, base attack bonus +4. 
Benefit: When you use the full attack action, you can give up 
your regular attacks and instead make one melee attack at your full 
base attack bonus against each opponent within reach. 
When you use the Whirlwind Attack feat, you also forfeit any 
bonus or extra attacks granted by other feats, spells, or abilities (such 
as the Cleave feat or the haste spell). 
Special: A fighter may select Whirlwind Attack as one of his 
fighter bonus feats. 
 
WIDEN SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can increase the area of your spells. 
Benefit: You can alter a burst, emanation, line, or spread shaped 
spell to increase its area. Any numeric measurements of the spell’s 
area increase by 100%. For example, a fireball spell (which normally 
produces a 20-foot-radius spread) that is widened now fills a 40-foot-
radius spread. A widened spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher 
than the spell’s actual level. 
Spells that do not have an area of one of these four sorts are not 
affected by this feat. 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 5: 
FEATS 