 
 103
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hat does your character look like? How old is she? 
What sort of first impression does she make? When 
she prays, what deity or deities does she call on, if 
any? What led her to become an adventurer? 
This chapter helps you establish your character’s 
identity by creating details that make her more lifelike, like a main 
character in a novel or a movie. For many players, the action lies 
here, in defining the character as a person to be roleplayed. 
When you first play a character, it’s fine to leave the details 
sketchy. As you play the character over time, you will get a better 
sense of who you want her to be. You will develop her details in 
much the same way that an author develops a character over several 
drafts of a novel or over several novels in a series. 
This chapter covers alignment (the character’s place in the strug-
gle between good and evil), religion (a character’s deity or deities), 
vital statistics (name, gender, age, and so on), and personal 
description. 
 
ALIGNMENT 
In the temple of Pelor is an ancient tome. When the temple recruits 
adventurers for its most sensitive and important quests, each one 
who wants to participate must kiss the book. Those who are evil in 
their hearts are blasted by holy power, and even those who are nei-
ther good nor evil are stunned. Only those who are good can kiss the 
tome without harm and are trusted with the temple’s most 
important work. Good and evil are not philosophical concepts in the 
D&D game. They are the forces that define the cosmos. 
Devils in human guise stalk the land, tempting people toward 
evil. Holy clerics use the power of good to protect worshipers. De-
votees of evil gods bring ruin on innocents to win the favor of their 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
deities, while trusting that rewards await them in the afterlife. 
Crusading paladins fearlessly confront evildoers, knowing that 
this short life is nothing worth clinging to. Warlords turn to 
whichever supernatural power will help them conquer, and 
proxies for good and evil gods promise rewards in return for the 
warlords’ oaths of obedience. 
A creature’s general moral and personal attitudes are 
represented by its alignment: lawful good, neutral good, 
chaotic good, lawful neutral, neutral, chaotic neutral, lawful 
evil, neutral evil, and chaotic evil. (See Table 6–1: Creature, 
Race, and Class Alignments, on the next page, for examples of 
which creatures, races, and classes favor which alignments.) 
Choose an alignment for your character, using his or her 
race and class as a guide. Most player characters are good or 
neutral rather than evil. In general, evil alignments are for 
villains and monsters. 
Alignment is a tool for developing your character’s 
identity. It is not a straitjacket for restricting your 
character. Each alignment represents a broad range of 
personality types or personal philosophies, so two lawful 
good characters can still be quite different from each 
other. In addition, few people are completely consistent. 
A lawful good character may have a greedy streak that 
occasionally tempts him to take something or hoard 
something he has even if that’s not lawful or good 
behavior. People are also not consistent from day to day. A 
good character can lose his temper, a neutral character can 
be inspired to perform a noble act, and so on. 
 
103