 
 105
unpunished. Alhandra, a paladin who fights evil without mercy and 
protects the innocent without hesitation, is lawful good. 
Lawful good is the best alignment you can be because it combines 
honor and compassion. 
Neutral Good, “Benefactor”:  A neutral good character does the 
best that a good person can do. He is devoted to helping others. He 
works with kings and magistrates 
but does not feel beholden to them. 
Jozan, a cleric who helps others 
according to their needs, is neutral 
good. 
Neutral good is the best 
alignment you can be because it 
means doing what is good 
without bias for or against 
order. 
Chaotic Good, “Rebel”:  A 
chaotic good character acts 
as his conscience directs 
him with little regard for 
what others expect of him. 
He makes his own way, 
but he’s kind and 
benevolent. He believes in 
goodness and right but has 
little use for laws and 
regulations. He hates it when 
people try to intimidate others 
and tell them what to do. He 
follows his own moral compass, 
which, although good, may not 
agree with that of society. Soverliss, 
a ranger who waylays the evil baron’s 
tax collectors, is chaotic good. 
Chaotic good is the best alignment you 
can be because it combines a good heart with a free 
spirit. 
Lawful Neutral, “Judge”:  A lawful neutral 
character acts as law, tradition, or a personal code 
directs her. Order and organization are para-
mount to her. She may believe in personal 
order and live by a code or standard, or she 
may believe in order for all and favor a 
strong, organized government. Ember, a 
monk who follows her discipline with-
out being swayed either by the demands 
of those in need or by the temptations of 
evil, is lawful neutral. 
Lawful neutral is the best alignment 
you can be because it means you are 
reliable and honorable without being 
a zealot. 
Neutral, “Undecided”:  A neutral character does what 
seems to be a good idea. She doesn’t feel strongly one way or the 
other when it comes to good vs. evil or law vs. chaos. Most neutral 
characters exhibit a lack of conviction or bias rather than a com-
mitment to neutrality. Such a character thinks of good as better than 
evil—after all, she would rather have good neighbors and rulers 
than evil ones. Still, she’s not personally committed to upholding 
good in any abstract or universal way. Mialee, a wizard who devotes 
herself to her art and is bored by the semantics of moral debate, is 
neutral. 
Some neutral characters, on the other hand, commit themselves 
philosophically to neutrality. They see good, evil, law, and chaos as 
prejudices and dangerous extremes. They advocate the middle way 
of neutrality as the best, most balanced road in the long run. 
Neutral is the best alignment you can be because it means you act 
naturally, without prejudice or compulsion. 
Chaotic Neutral, “Free Spirit”:  A chaotic neutral character 
follows his whims. He is an individualist first and last. He values his 
own liberty but doesn’t strive to protect others’ freedom. He avoids 
authority, resents restrictions, and challenges traditions. A chaotic 
neutral character does not intentionally disrupt organizations as part 
of a campaign of anarchy. To do so, he would have to be motivated 
either by good (and a desire to 
liberate others) or evil (and a 
desire to make those different 
from himself suffer). A 
chaotic neutral character may 
be unpredictable, but his 
behavior is not totally 
random. He is not as 
likely to jump off a 
bridge as to cross it. 
Gimble, a bard who 
wanders the land living 
by his wits, is chaotic 
neutral. 
Chaotic neutral is the 
best alignment you can be because 
it represents true freedom from 
both society’s restrictions and a do-
gooder’s zeal. 
Lawful Evil, “Dominator”:  A 
lawful evil villain methodically takes 
what he wants within the limits of his 
code of conduct without regard for 
whom it hurts. He cares about 
tradition, loyalty, and order but not 
about freedom, dignity, or life. He 
plays by the rules but without mercy 
or compassion. He is comfortable in a 
hierarchy and would like to rule, but is 
willing to serve. He condemns others 
not according to their actions but 
according to race, religion, 
homeland, or social rank. He 
is loath to break laws or 
promises. This reluctance 
comes partly from his nature 
and partly because he 
depends on order to protect 
himself from those who 
oppose him on moral 
grounds. 
Some lawful evil 
villains have particular 
taboos, such as not 
killing in cold blood (but having underlings do it) or not letting 
children come to harm (if it can be helped). They imagine that these 
compunctions put them above unprincipled villains. The scheming 
baron who expands his power and exploits his people is lawful evil. 
Some lawful evil people and creatures commit themselves to evil 
with a zeal like that of a crusader committed to good. Beyond being 
willing to hurt others for their own ends, they take pleasure in 
spreading evil as an end unto itself. They may also see doing evil as 
part of a duty to an evil deity or master. 
Lawful evil is sometimes called “diabolical,” because devils are the 
epitome of lawful evil. 
Devis
Illus. by J. Foster 
CHAPTER 6: 
DESCRIPTION 