 
 106 
Lawful evil is the most dangerous alignment because it represents 
methodical, intentional, and frequently successful evil. 
Neutral Evil, “Malefactor”:  A neutral evil villain does whatever 
she can get away with. She is out for herself, pure and simple. She 
sheds no tears for those she kills, whether for profit, sport, or 
convenience. She has no love of order and holds no illusion that 
following laws, traditions, or codes would make her any better or 
more noble. On the other hand, she doesn’t have the restless nature 
or love of conflict that a chaotic evil villain has. The criminal who 
robs and murders to get what she wants is neutral evil. 
Some neutral evil villains hold up evil as an ideal, committing evil 
for its own sake. Most often, such villains are devoted to evil deities 
or secret societies. 
Neutral evil is the most dangerous alignment because it repre-
sents pure evil without honor and without variation. 
Chaotic Evil, “Destroyer”:  A chaotic evil character does what-
ever his greed, hatred, and lust for destruction drive him to do. He is 
hot-tempered, vicious, arbitrarily violent, and unpredictable. If he is 
simply out for whatever he can get, he is ruthless and brutal. If he is 
committed to the spread of evil and chaos, he is even worse. 
Thankfully, his plans are haphazard, and any groups he joins or 
forms are poorly organized. Typically, chaotic evil people can be 
made to work together only by force, and their leader lasts only as 
long as he can thwart attempts to topple or assassinate him. The 
demented sorcerer pursuing mad schemes of vengeance and havoc 
is chaotic evil. 
Chaotic evil is sometimes called “demonic” because demons are 
the epitome of chaotic evil. 
Chaotic evil is the most dangerous alignment because it 
represents the destruction not only of beauty and life but also of the 
order on which beauty and life depend. 
 
RELIGION 
The gods are many. A few, such as Pelor (god of the sun), have grand 
temples that sponsor mighty processions through the streets on 
high holy days. Others, such as Erythnul (god of slaughter), have 
temples only in hidden places or evil lands. While the gods most 
strongly make their presence felt through their clerics, they also 
have lay followers who more or less attempt to live up to their 
deities’ standards. The typical person has a deity whom he considers 
to be his patron. Still, it is only prudent to be respectful toward and 
even pray to other deities when the time is right. Before setting out 
on a journey, a follower of Pelor might leave a small sacrifice at a 
wayside shrine to Fharlanghn (god of roads) to improve his chances 
of having a safe journey. As long as one’s own deity is not at odds 
with the others in such an act of piety, such simple practices are 
common. In times of tribulation, however, some people recite dark 
prayers to evil deities. Such prayers are best muttered under one’s 
breath, lest others overhear. 
Deities rule the various aspects of human existence: good and evil, 
law and chaos, life and death, knowledge and nature. In addition, 
various nonhuman races have racial deities of their own (see Table 
6–2: Deities by Race). A character may not be a cleric of a racial deity 
unless he is of the right race, but he may worship such a deity and 
live according to that deity’s guidance. For a deity who is not tied to 
a particular race (such as Pelor), a cleric’s race is not an issue. 
Deities of certain monster types are identified in the Monster 
Manual. Many more deities than those described here or mentioned 
in the Monster Manual also exist. 
Your character may or may not have a patron deity. If you want 
her to have one, consider first the deities most appropriate to the 
character’s race, class, and alignment (see Table 6–2: Deities by Race 
and Table 6–3: Deities by Class). If a cleric selects a deity, which one 
he selects influences his capabilities. Players with cleric characters 
should refer to Deity, Domains, and Domain Spells, page 32, before 
picking a deity, though the information below describing the 
various gods and goddesses can help them make a decision. 
 
Table 6–2: Deities by Race 
Race Deities 
Human By class and alignment 
Dwarf Moradin or by class and alignment 
Elf Corellon Larethian, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment 
Gnome Garl Glittergold, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment 
Half-elf Corellon Larethian, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment 
Half-orc Gruumsh or by class and alignment 
Halfling Yondalla, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment  
 
Table 6–3: Deities by Class 
Class Deities (Alignment) 
Barbarian Kord (CG), Obad-Hai (N), Erythnul (CE) 
Bard Pelor (NG), Fharlanghn (N), Olidammara (CN) 
Cleric Any 
Druid Obad-Hai (N) 
Fighter Heironeous (LG), Kord (CG), St. Cuthbert (LN), 
 Hextor (LE), Erythnul (CE) 
Illusionist Boccob (N) 
Necromancer Wee Jas (LN), Nerull (NE) 
Monk Heironeous (LG), St. Cuthbert, (LN), Hextor (LE) 
Paladin Heironeous (LG) 
Ranger Ehlonna (NG), Obad-Hai (N) 
Rogue Olidammara (CN), Nerull (NE), Vecna (NE), 
 Erythnul (CE) 
Sorcerer Wee Jas (LN), Boccob (N), Vecna (NE) 
Wizard Wee Jas (LN), Boccob (N), Vecna (NE)  
 
DEITIES 
Across the world, people and creatures worship a great number of 
varied deities. Those described here are the deities most often wor-
shiped among the common races, by adventurers, and by villains. 
Each entry includes the deity’s name, role, alignment, titles he or 
she is known by, and general description. These deities’ holy (or 
unholy) symbols are shown accompanying their descriptions. (See 
Table 3–7: Deities, page 32, for a summary of the most common 
deities, their alignments, the domains they are associated with, and 
their typical worshipers.) 
 
Boccob 
The god of magic, Boccob, is neutral. His titles 
include the Uncaring, Lord of All Magics, 
and Archmage of the Deities. Boccob 
is a distant deity who promotes no 
special agenda in the world of 
mortals. As a god of magic and 
knowledge, he is worshiped by 
wizards, sorcerers, and sages. The 
domains he is associated with are 
Knowledge, Magic, and Trickery. 
The quarterstaff is his favored 
weapon. 
 
Corellon Larethian 
The god of elves, Corellon Larethian, is 
chaotic good. He is known as the Creator 
of the Elves, the Protector, Protector and 
Preserver of Life, and Ruler of All 
Elves. Corellon Larethian is the cre-
ator and protector of the elf race. He 
governs those things held in highest 
esteem among elves, such as magic, 
music, arts, crafts, poetry, and warfare. Elves, 
half-elves, and bards worship him. The domains 
Illus. by S. Wood 
CHAPTER 6: 
DESCRIPTION 