 
 110 
LOOKS, PERSONALITY, 
AND BACKGROUND 
You can detail your character to any degree you like. As you play the 
character, you will probably come up with more details you will 
want to add. 
 
LOOKS 
Decide what your character looks like using the descriptions of the 
various races in Chapter 2 as a starting point. Characters with high 
Charisma scores tend to be better-looking than those with low 
Charisma scores, though a character with high Charisma could have 
strange looks, giving him or her a sort of exotic beauty. 
Your character can be right- or left-handed. 
You can use your character’s looks to tell something about 
his or her personality and background. For example: 
/rhombus4 Krusk the half-orc is missing part of an ear and bears 
many scars that are the result of the violent life he 
led among the orcs that raised him. He keeps 
claws and fangs from beasts he has killed on a 
necklace. 
/rhombus4 Alhandra the paladin has the hand of 
Heironeous branded on the inside of her forearm 
to show her devotion to him. 
/rhombus4 Hennet the sorcerer wears an eclectic, 
makeshift outfit that is different from day to 
day, suggesting his chaotic nature. 
 
PERSONALITY 
Decide how your character acts, what she 
likes, what she wants out of life, what scares 
her, and what makes her angry. Race and 
alignment are good places to start when 
thinking about your character’s personality, 
but they are bad places to stop. Make your 
lawful good dwarf (or whatever) different 
from every other lawful good dwarf. 
A handy trick for making an interesting 
personality for your character is including some 
sort of conflict in her nature. For example, Tordek is 
lawful, but he’s a little greedy, too. He may be tempted to 
steal if he can justify it to himself. 
Your character’s personality can change over time. Just 
because you decide some basic facts about your 
character’s personality upon creation doesn’t mean you 
need to abide by those facts as if they were holy writ. 
Let your character grow and evolve the way real 
people do. 
 
BACKGROUND 
Decide what your character’s life has been like up until 
now. Here are a few questions to get you thinking: 
/rhombus4 How did he decide to be an adventurer? 
/rhombus4 How did he acquire her class? A fighter, for example, might have 
been in the militia, he may come from a family of soldiers, he may 
have trained in a martial school, or he may be a self-taught 
warrior. 
/rhombus4 How did he get his starting equipment? Did he assemble it piece 
by piece over time? Was it a parting gift from a parent or mentor? 
Do any of his personal items have special significance to him? 
/rhombus4 What’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to him? 
/rhombus4 What’s the best thing that’s ever happened to him? 
/rhombus4 Does he stay in contact with his family? What do his relatives 
think of him? 
 
CUSTOMIZING 
YOUR CHARACTER 
The rules for creating your character provide a common ground for 
players, but you can tweak the rules to make your character unique. 
Any substantive changes, however, must be approved by the DM. 
Race: The rules for a character of a given race apply to most but 
not all people of that race. For example, you could create a dwarf 
descended from dwarven outcasts who have been exiled from 
dwarven society. Your dwarf would have grown up among humans. 
He would have the inborn qualities of a dwarf (better Constitution, 
worse Charisma, darkvision, 
and resistance to poison and 
spells) but not the cultural 
features (stonecunning, attack 
bonuses against goblinoids and 
orcs, dodge bonus against giants, 
bonuses to Appraise and Craft 
checks that relate to stone or 
metal, fighter as favored class, and 
perhaps even knowledge of the 
dwarven language). You could 
probably talk your DM into giving 
your character some special bonuses 
to balance the loss of the cultural 
features. 
Class: Some classes already give you 
plenty of room to customize your 
character. With your DM’s approval, 
however, you could change some of your 
class features. For instance, if you want a 
fighter who used to work for the thieves 
guild as an enforcer but who is now trying 
to become a legitimate bodyguard, he could 
be proficient only with the weapons and 
armor available to rogues, have 4 skill points 
per level instead of 2, and access to Bluff and 
Sense Motive as class skills. Otherwise, he 
would be a regular fighter. 
Skills and Feats:  You can call your skills, 
feats, and class features whatever your character 
would call them. Lidda, the halfling rogue, talks 
about “footpaddin’ ” rather than about “moving 
silently,” so her player writes “Footpaddin’ ” 
down on her character sheet to stand for the 
Move Silently skill. Ember, the monk, calls her 
Move Silently skill “Rice Paper Walk.” 
You might also think of other skills that your 
character ought to have. Your DM has guidelines 
(in the Dungeon Master’s Guide ) for creating new 
skills. 
Equipment: Your equipment can look the way 
you want it to look to match your character’s style. 
One wizard’s quarterstaff might be a plain, straight 
length of wood, while another wizard’s is gnarled, twisted, and 
engraved with mystic runes. 
Your character might have some items that aren’t on the equip-
ment lists (see Chapter 7). Agree with your DM on what a new item 
would do and how much it would cost, and then your character can 
have it. 
Sometimes you see a weapon in a movie or read about one in a 
book, and you want your character to use that weapon. If it’s not on 
the weapon list in Chapter 7, try to find a weapon on the list that 
seems equivalent. A katana (samurai sword), for example, is not on 
the weapon list, but you could equip your character with a katana 
and just treat it like a masterwork bastard sword. 
Illus. by T. Lockwood 
Nerull
CHAPTER 6: 
DESCRIPTION 