 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n the marketplace of a big city, armorsmiths and weapon-
smiths offer a wide variety of arms and armor for those with 
the gold to buy them. Here you can find practical, sturdy 
swords and perhaps a few elven blades of exceptional quality. 
Alchemists sell acid, alchemist’s fire, and smokesticks for 
those who want something flashier than a trusty blade. Wizards (or, 
more likely, their brokers) even sell magic scrolls, wands, weapons, 
and other items. 
This chapter covers the mundane and exotic merchandise that 
characters may want to purchase and how to go about doing so. 
(Magic items are covered in the Dungeon Master’s Guide.) 
 
EQUIPPING A CHARACTER 
A beginning character generally has enough wealth to start out with 
the basics: some weapons, some armor suitable to his or her class (if 
any), and some miscellaneous gear. As the character undertakes 
adventures and amasses loot, he or she can afford bigger and better 
gear. At first, however, the options are limited by the character’s 
budget. 
 
STARTING PACKAGES 
Each class has a starting package that provides default equipment (as 
well as default skills, a default feat, and so forth). If you equip your 
character with the default equipment, you can customize these 
packages a little by swapping in some equipment of your choice for 
the indicated equipment. Trades like this are fine as long as the 
value of the equipment you swap in isn’t higher than the value of the 
equipment given in the package. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EQUIPMENT A LA CARTE 
If you don’t want to take the standard package for your character 
class, you can instead purchase weapons, armor, and 
miscellaneous equipment item by item. You begin with a 
random number of gold pieces that is determined by your 
character’s class, and you decide how to spend it (see Table 7–1: 
Random Starting Gold). Alternatively, your DM can assign 
average starting gold for each character, as indicated on Table 
7–1. 
 
Table 7–1: Random Starting Gold 
Class Amount (average) Class Amount (average) 
Barbarian 4d4 × 10 (100 gp) Paladin 6d4 × 10 (150 gp) 
Bard 4d4 × 10 (100 gp) Ranger 6d4 × 10 (150 gp) 
Cleric 5d4 × 10 (125 gp) Rogue 5d4 × 10 (125 gp) 
Druid 2d4 × 10 (50 gp) Sorcerer 3d4 × 10 (75 gp) 
Fighter 6d4 × 10 (150 gp) Wizard 3d4 × 10 (75 gp) 
Monk 5d4 (12 gp, 5 sp)
 
 
Note that buying beginning equipment this way is an 
abstraction. Your character doesn’t walk into a store with 
handfuls of gold and buy every item one by one. Rather, 
these items may have come the character’s way as gifts 
from family, equipment from patrons, gear granted 
during military service, swag gained through duplicity, 
and so on. 
Assume your character owns at least one outfit of normal 
clothes. Pick any one of the following clothing outfits for free: 
artisan’s outfit, entertainer’s outfit, explorer’s outfit, monk’s 
outfit, peasant’s outfit, scholar’s outfit, or traveler’s outfit. 
(See Clothing, page 131.) 
111