 
 112 
AVAILABILITY 
All the items described in this chapter are assumed to be available to 
PCs with the wherewithal to buy them. Many of these items are very 
expensive and rare. You won’t find them on the rack at a store in a 
town. But a character with the coin to buy an expensive item can 
usually connect with a seller and get a desired item. 
If you want to buy something not described in this chapter, the 
general rule is that you can buy anything that costs as much as 3,000 
gp. Buying a more expensive item, such as a +2 longsword , means 
either going to a big city where rare things are for sale, making a 
special deal with someone who makes or can provide the item, or 
paying a premium price to a merchant who makes a special effort to 
get you what you want. 
Depending on where in the fantasy world the character is, it 
might be possible to buy more expensive items without a problem, 
or it might be more difficult to do so. In a small town, for example, 
it’s practically impossible to find someone who can make a suit of 
full plate armor. The DM determines what is and is not available 
depending on how he or she runs the world and where the 
characters are in it. 
 
WEALTH AND MONEY 
Adventurers are in the small group of people who regularly buy 
things with coins. Members of the peasantry trade mostly in goods, 
bartering for what they need and paying taxes in grain and cheese. 
Members of the nobility trade mostly in legal rights, such as the 
rights to a mine, a port, or farmland, or they trade in gold bars, 
measuring gold by the pound rather than by the coin. 
 
COINS 
The most common coin that adventurers use is the gold piece (gp). 
With 1 gold piece, a character can buy a belt pouch, 50 feet of 
hempen rope, or a goat. A skilled (but not exceptional) artisan can 
earn 1 gold piece a day. The gold piece is the standard unit of meas-
ure for wealth. When merchants discuss deals that involve goods or 
services worth hundreds or thousands of gold pieces, the trans-
actions don’t usually involve the exchange of that many individual 
coins. Rather, the gold piece is a standard measure of value, and the 
actual exchange is in gold bars, letters of credit, or valuable goods. 
The most prevalent coin among commoners is the silver piece 
(sp). A gold piece is worth 10 silver pieces. A silver piece buys a 
laborer’s work for a day, a common lamp, or a poor meal of bread, 
baked turnips, onions, and water. 
Each silver piece is worth 10 copper pieces (cp). A single copper 
piece buys a candle, a torch, or a piece of chalk. Copper piece are 
common among laborers and beggars. 
In addition to copper, silver, and gold coins, which people use 
daily, merchants also recognize platinum pieces (pp), which are each 
worth 10 gp. These coins are not in common circulation, but adven-
turers occasionally find them as part of ancient treasure hoards. 
The standard coin weighs about a third of an ounce (fifty to the 
pound). It is the exact size of the coin pictured in the illustration on 
page 168. 
 
Table 7–2: Coins 
  ————— Exchange Value ———— 
   CP SP GP PP  
Copper piece (cp) = 1 1/10 1/100 1/1,000 
Silver piece (sp) = 10 1 1/10 1/100 
Gold piece (gp) = 100 10 1 1/10 
Platinum piece (pp) = 1,000 100 10 1
 
 
WEALTH OTHER THAN COINS 
Most wealth is not in coins. It is livestock, grain, land, rights to col-
l e c t  t a x e s ,  o r  r i g h t s  t o  r e s o u r c e s  ( s u c h  a s  a  m i n e  o r  a  f o r e s t ) .  G e m s  
and jewelry also serve as portable wealth. 
Trade 
Guilds, nobles, and royalty regulate trade. Chartered companies are 
granted rights to dam rivers in order to provide power for mills, to 
conduct trade along certain routes, to send merchant ships to 
various ports, or to buy or sell specific goods. Guilds set prices for 
the goods or services that they control, and determine who may or 
may not offer those goods and services. Merchants commonly 
exchange trade goods commodities without using currency. As a 
means of comparison, some trade goods are detailed on Table 7–3: 
Trade Goods. 
 
Table 7–3: Trade Goods 
 Cost Item 
 1 cp One pound of wheat 
 2 cp One pound of flour, or one chicken 
 1 sp One pound of iron 
 5 sp One pound of tobacco or copper 
 1 gp One pound of cinnamon, or one goat 
 2 gp One pound of ginger or pepper, or one sheep 
 3 gp One pig 
 4 gp One square yard of linen 
 5 gp One pound of salt or silver 
 10 gp One square yard of silk, or one cow 
 15 gp One pound of saffron or cloves, or one ox 
 50 gp One pound of gold 
 500 gp One pound of platinum  
 
SELLING LOOT 
In general, a character can sell something for half its listed price. 
Characters who want to upgrade to better armor or weaponry, for 
example, can sell their old equipment for half price. 
Trade goods are the exception to the half-price rule. A trade good, 
in this sense, is a valuable good that can be easily exchanged almost 
as if it were cash itself. Wheat, flour, cloth, gems, jewelry, art objects, 
and valuable metals are trade goods, and merchants often trade in 
them directly without using currency (see Table 7–3: Trade Goods). 
Obviously, merchants can sell these goods for slightly more than 
they pay for them, but the difference is small enough that you don’t 
have to worry about it. 
 
WEAPONS 
A character’s weapons help determine how capable here or she is in 
a variety of combat situations. See Table 7–4: Weapons for the 
characteristics of various weapons.  
 
WEAPON CATEGORIES 
Weapons are grouped into several interlocking sets of categories. 
These categories pertain to what training is needed to become pro-
ficient in a weapon’s use (simple, martial, or exotic), the weapon’s 
usefulness either in close combat (melee) or at a distance (ranged, 
which includes both thrown and projectile weapons), its relative 
encumbrance (light, one-handed, or two-handed), and its size 
(Small, Medium, or Large). 
Simple, Martial, and Exotic Weapons:  Anybody but a druid, 
monk, rogue, or wizard is proficient with all simple weapons. Bar-
barians, fighters, paladins, and rangers are proficient with all simple 
and all martial weapons. Characters of other classes are proficient 
with an assortment of mainly simple weapons and possibly also 
some martial or even exotic weapons. A character who uses a 
weapon with which he or she is not proficient takes a –4 penalty on 
attack rolls. 
Melee and Ranged Weapons:  Melee weapons are used for 
making melee attacks, though some of them can be thrown as well. 
Ranged weapons are thrown weapons or projectile weapons that are 
not effective in melee. 
Reach Weapons:  Glaives, guisarmes, lances, longspears, ranseurs, 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 