 
 114 
WEAPON QUALITIES 
The weapon a character uses says something about who he or she is. 
You probably want to equip your character with both a melee 
weapon and a ranged weapon. If you can’t afford both your melee 
weapon of choice and your ranged weapon of choice, decide which 
is more important to the character.  
What size of weapon you choose determines how your character 
can choose to wield it (with one hand or two) and how much 
damage he or she can deal with it. A two-handed weapon deals more 
damage than a one-handed weapon, but wielding a two-handed 
weapon prevents the wielder from using a shield, so that’s a trade-
off. 
The number of weapons your character is proficient with depends 
on his or her class and race. A character can also become proficient 
with additional weapons by selecting the right feats. See Exotic 
Weapon Proficiency (page 94), Martial Weapon Proficiency (page 
97), and Simple Weapon Proficiency (page 100). 
A better weapon is usually more expensive than an inferior one, 
but more expensive doesn’t always mean better. For instance, a 
rapier is more expensive than a longsword. For a dexterous rogue 
with the Weapon Finesse feat, a rapier is a terrific weapon. For a 
typical fighter, a longsword is better. 
When selecting your character’s weapons, keep in mind the fol-
lowing factors (given as column headings on Table 7–5). 
Cost: This value is the weapon’s cost in gold pieces (gp) or silver 
pieces (sp). The cost includes miscellaneous gear that goes with the 
weapon, such as a scabbard for a sword or a quiver for arrows. This 
cost is the same for a Small or Medium version of the weapon. A 
Large version costs twice the listed price. 
Damage: The Damage columns give the damage you deal by the 
weapon on a successful hit. The column labelled “Dmg (S)” is for 
Small weapons, such as those typically wielded by a gnome or 
halfling. The column labelled “Dmg (M)” is for Medium weapons, 
such as those typically wielded by a dwarf, elf, half-elf, half-orc, or 
human. If two damage ranges are given, such as “1d6/1d6” for the 
quarterstaff, then the weapon is a double weapon (see Double 
Weapons, above, and Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). Use the 
second damage figure given for the double weapon’s extra attack. 
Table 7–4: Tiny and Large Weapon Damage gives weapon damage 
values for weapons of those sizes. For instance, a Tiny longsword 
(such as might be wielded by a halfling or gnome fighter under the 
effect of a reduce person  spell) deals 1d4 points of damage, while a 
Large greataxe (wielded by a half-orc barbarian under the effect of an 
enlarge person  spell) deals 3d6 points of damage. The Dungeon 
Master’s Guide has more information on weapons and combat for 
creatures smaller than Small and larger than Medium. 
 
Table 7–4: Tiny and Large Weapon Damage 
 Medium Tiny Large 
 Weapon Damage  Weapon Damage  Weapon Damage  
 1d2 — 1d3 
 1d3 1 1d4 
 1d4 1d2 1d6 
 1d6 1d3 1d8 
 1d8 1d4 2d6 
 1d10 1d6 2d8 
 1d12 1d8 3d6 
 2d4 1d4 2d6 
 2d6 1d8 3d6 
 2d8 1d10 3d8 
 2d10 2d6 4d8  
 
Critical: The entry in this column notes how the weapon is used 
with the rules for critical hits. When your character scores a critical 
hit, roll the damage two, three, or four times, as indicated by its 
critical multiplier (using all applicable modifiers on each roll), and 
add all the results together. 
Exception: Bonus damage over and above a weapon’s normal 
damage, such as that dealt by a sneak attack or the special ability of a 
flaming sword, is not multiplied when you score a critical hit. 
×2: The weapon deals double damage on a critical hit. 
×3: The weapon deals triple damage on a critical hit. 
×3/×4: One head of this double weapon deals triple damage on a 
critical hit. The other head deals quadruple damage on a critical hit. 
×4: The weapon deals quadruple damage on a critical hit. 
19–20/×2: The weapon scores a threat (a possible critical hit) on a 
natural roll of 19 or 20 (instead of just on a 20) and deals double 
damage on a critical hit. (The weapon has a threat range of 19–20.) 
18–20/×2: The weapon scores a threat on a natural roll of 18, 19, or 
20 (instead of just on a 20) and deals double damage on a critical hit.  
(The weapon has a threat range of 18–20.) 
19–20/×2: The weapon scores a threat (a possible critical hit) on a 
natural roll of 19 or 20 (instead of just on a 20) and deals double 
damage on a critical hit. (The weapon has a threat range of 19–20.) 
18–20/×2: The weapon scores a threat on a natural roll of 18, 19, or 
20 (instead of just on a 20) and deals double damage on a critical hit.  
(The weapon has a threat range of 18–20.) 
Range Increment:  Any attack at less than this distance is not 
penalized for range, so an arrow from a shortbow (range increment 
60 feet) can strike at enemies up to 59 feet away or closer with no 
penalty. However, each full range increment imposes a cumulative –
2 penalty on the attack roll. A shortbow archer firing at a target 200 
feet away suffers a –6 penalty on the attack roll(–2 × 3, because 200 
feet is at least three range increments but not four). A thrown 
weapon, such as a throwing axe, has a maximum range of five range 
increments. A projectile weapon, such as a bow, can shoot up to ten 
range increments. 
Weight: This column gives the weight of a Medium version of 
the weapon. Halve this number for Small weapons, and double it for 
Large weapons. 
Type: Weapons are classified according to the type of damage 
they deal: bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing. Some monsters may be 
resistant or immune to attacks from certain types of weapons. For 
example, a skeleton takes less damage from slashing weapons and 
piercing weapons. 
Some weapons deal damage of multiple types (for example, the 
morningstar, which deals both bludgeoning and piercing damage). 
If a weapon is of two types, the damage it deals is not half one type 
and half another; all of it is both types. Therefore, a creature would 
have to be immune to both types of damage to ignore any of the 
damage from such a weapon. 
In other cases, a weapon can deal either of two types of damage 
(such as the dagger, which can deal either piercing or slashing 
damage). In a situation when the damage type is significant, the 
wielder can choose which type of damage to deal with such a 
weapon. 
Special: Some weapons have special features. See the weapon 
descriptions for details. 
 
Weapon Descriptions 
Weapons found on Table 7–5: Weapons are described below, along 
with any special options for the wielder (“you”) has for their use. 
Splash weapons are described under Special Substances and Items, 
page 128. 
Arrows: An arrow used as a melee weapon is treated as a light 
improvised weapon (–4 penalty on attack rolls) and deals damage as 
a dagger of its size (critical multiplier ×2). Arrows come in a leather 
quiver that holds 20 arrows. An arrow that hits its target is 
destroyed; one that misses has a 50% chance of being destroyed or 
lost. 
Axe, Throwing:  A throwing axe is lighter than a handaxe and 
balanced for throwing. Gnome fighters often use throwing axes for 
both melee and ranged attacks. 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 