 
 119
its size. A longbow is too unwieldy to use while you are mounted. If 
you have a penalty for low Strength, apply it to damage rolls when 
you use a longbow. If you have a bonus for high Strength, you can 
apply it to damage rolls when you use a composite longbow (see 
below) but not a regular longbow. 
Longbow, Composite: You need at least two hands to use a bow, 
regardless of its size. You can use a composite longbow while 
mounted. Composite bows are made from laminated horn, wood, or 
bone and built with a recurve, meaning that the bow remains bow-
shaped even when unstrung. All composite bows are made with a 
particular strength rating (that is, each requires a minimum 
Strength modifier to use with proficiency). If your Strength bonus is 
less than the strength rating of the composite bow, you can’t 
effectively use it, so you take a –2 penalty on attacks with it. The 
default composite longbow requires a Strength modifier of +0 or 
higher to use with proficiency. A composite longbow can be made 
with a high strength rating (representing an especially heavy pull) to 
take advantage of an above-average Strength score; this feature 
allows you to add your Strength bonus to damage, up to the 
maximum bonus indicated for the bow. Each point of Strength 
bonus granted by the bow adds 100 gp to its cost. For instance, a 
composite longbow (+1 Str bonus) costs 200 gp, while a composite 
longbow (+4 Str bonus) costs 500 gp. 
For example, Tordek has a +2 Strength bonus. With a regular 
composite longbow, he gets no modifier on damage rolls. For 200 
gp, he can buy a composite longbow (+1 Str bonus), which lets him 
add +1 to his damage rolls. For 300 gp, he can buy one that lets him 
add his entire +2 Strength bonus. Even if he paid 400 gp for a 
composite longbow (+3 Str bonus), he would still get only a +2 bo-
nus on damage rolls and takes a –2 penalty on attacks with it because 
his Strength is insufficient to use the weapon to best advantage. The 
bow can’t grant him a higher bonus than he already has. 
For purposes of weapon proficiency and similar feats, a composite 
longbow is treated as if it were a longbow. Thus, if you have Weapon 
Focus (longbow), that feat applies both to longbows and composite 
longbows. 
Longspear: A longspear has reach. You can strike opponents 10 
feet away with it, but you can’t use it against an adjacent foe. If you 
use a ready action to set a longspear against a charge, you deal double 
damage on a successful hit against a charging character. 
Longsword: This classic, straight blade is the weapon of 
knighthood and valor. It is a favorite weapon of many paladins. 
Mace, Heavy or Light:  A mace is made of metal, even the haft, 
which makes it quite heavy and very hard to break. 
Net: A fighting net has small barbs in the weave and a trailing 
rope to control netted opponents. You use it to entangle enemies. 
When you throw a net, you make a ranged touch attack against 
your target. A net’s maximum range is 10 feet. If you hit, the target is 
entangled. An entangled creature takes a –2 penalty on attack rolls 
and a –4 penalty on Dexterity, can move at only half speed, and 
cannot charge or run. If you control the trailing rope by succeeding 
on an opposed Strength check while holding it, the entangled 
creature can move only within the limits that the rope allows. If the 
entangled creature attempts to cast a spell, it must make a DC 15 
Concentration check or be unable to cast the spell. 
An entangled creature can escape with a DC 20 Escape Artist 
check (a full-round action). The net has 5 hit points and can be burst 
with a DC 25 Strength check (also a full-round action). 
A net is useful only against creatures within one size category of 
you. For instance, a Small character wielding a net can entangle 
Tiny, Small, or Medium creatures. 
A net must be folded to be thrown effectively. The first time you 
throw your net in a fight, you make a normal ranged touch attack 
Illus. by L. Grant-West 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 