 
 121
particular strength rating (that is, each requires a minimum 
Strength modifier to use with proficiency). If your Strength bonus is 
lower than the strength rating of the composite bow, you can’t 
effectively use it, so you take a –2 penalty on attacks with it. The 
default composite shortbow requires a Strength modifier of +0 or 
higher to use with proficiency. A composite shortbow can be made 
with a high strength rating to take advantage of an above-average 
Strength score; this feature allows you to add your Strength bonus to 
damage, up to the maximum bonus indicated for the bow. Each 
point of Strength bonus granted by the bow adds 75 gp to its cost.  
For instance, a composite shortbow (+1 Str bonus) costs 150 gp, 
while a composite shortbow (+4 Str bonus) costs 375 gp. 
For example, Tordek has a +2 Strength bonus. With a regular 
composite shortbow, he gets no modifier on damage rolls. For 150 
gp, he can buy a composite shortbow (+1 Str bonus), which lets him 
add +1 to his damage rolls. For 225 gp, he can buy one that lets him 
add his entire +2 Strength bonus. Even if he paid 300 gp for a 
composite shortbow (+3 Str bonus), he would still get only a +2 
bonus on damage rolls and takes a –2 penalty on attacks with it 
because his Strength is insufficient to use the weapon to best 
advantage. The bow can’t grant him a higher bonus than he already 
has. 
For purposes of weapon proficiency and similar feats, a composite 
shortbow is treated as if it were a shortbow. Thus, if you have 
Weapon Focus (shortbow), that feat applies both to short-bows and 
composite shortbows. 
Shortspear: A shortspear is small enough to wield one-handed. It 
may also be thrown. 
Shuriken: A shuriken is a special monk weapon. This designa-
tion gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding shuriken special 
options. A shuriken can’t be used as a melee weapon. 
Although they are thrown weapons, shuriken are treated as 
ammunition for the purposes of drawing them, crafting masterwork 
or otherwise special versions of them (see Masterwork Weapons, 
below), and what happens to them after they are thrown. 
Siangham: The siangham is a special monk weapon. This des-
ignation gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a siangham 
special options. 
Sickle: This weapon is like a farmer’s sickle, but it is strengthened 
for use as a weapon. It is favored by druids and by anyone who wants 
a weapon that might be overlooked by guards. 
Because of a sickle’s shape, you can also use it to make trip attacks. 
If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the 
sickle to avoid being tripped. 
Sling: A sling hurls lead bullets. It doesn’t shoot as far as a cross-
b o w ,  n o r  i s  i t  a s  p o w e r f u l  a s  a  b o w ,  b u t  i t ’ s  c h e a p  a n d  e a s y  t o  
improvise from common materials. Druids and halflings favor 
slings. Your Strength modifier applies to damage rolls when you use 
a sling, just as it does for thrown weapons. You can fire, but not load, 
a sling with one hand. Loading a sling is a move action that requires 
two hands and provokes attacks of opportunity. 
You can hurl ordinary stones with a sling, but stones are not as 
dense or as round as bullets. Thus, such an attack deals damage as if 
the weapon were designed for a creature one size category smaller 
than you (for instance, 1d3 instead of 1d4, or 1d2 instead of 1d3) and 
you take a –1 penalty on attack rolls. 
Spear: One of the simplest weapons in existence, the spear is 
favored by druids and sorcerers. It can be thrown. If you use a ready 
action to set a spear against a charge, you deal double damage on a 
successful hit against a charging character. 
Spiked Armor: You can outfit your armor with spikes, which can 
deal damage in a grapple or as a separate attack. See Armor, later in 
this chapter. 
Spiked Shield, Heavy or Light:  You can bash with a spiked 
shield instead of using it for defense. See Armor, later in this 
chapter. 
Strike, Unarmed:  A Medium character deals 1d3 points of 
nonlethal damage with an unarmed strike, which may be a punch, 
kick, head butt, or other type of attack. A Small character deals 1d2 
points of nonlethal damage. A monk or any character with the 
Improved Unarmed Strike feat can deal lethal or nonlethal damage 
with unarmed strikes, at her option. The damage from an unarmed 
strike is considered weapon damage for the purposes of effects that 
give you a bonus on weapon damage rolls. 
An unarmed strike is always considered a light weapon. There-
fore, you can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to apply your 
Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack rolls 
with an unarmed strike. 
Sword, Bastard:  bastard swords are also known as hand-and-a-
half swords. A bastard sword is too large to use in one hand without 
special training; thus, it is an exotic weapon. A character can use a 
bastard sword two-handed as a martial weapon. 
Sword, Short: This sword is popular as an off-hand weapon. 
Sword, Two-Bladed:  A two-bladed sword is a double weapon. 
You can fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, 
you incur all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting 
with two weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon 
and a light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). A creature 
wielding a two-bladed sword in one hand can’t use it as a double 
weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used in any given 
round. 
Trident: This three-tined piercing weapon can be thrown just as a 
shortspear or spear can be, but its range increment is shorter 
because it’s not as aerodynamic as those other weapons. If you use a 
ready action to set a trident against a charge, you deal double damage 
on a successful hit against a charging character. 
Urgrosh, Dwarven: A dwarven urgrosh is a double weapon. You 
can fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, you 
incur all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting with 
two weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon and a 
light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). The urgrosh’s 
axe head is a slashing weapon that deals 1d8 points of damage. Its 
spear head is a piercing weapon that deals 1d6 points of damage. You 
can use either head as the primary weapon. The other is the off-hand 
weapon. A creature wielding a dwarven urgrosh in one hand can’t 
use it as a double weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used 
in any given round. 
If you use a ready action to set an urgrosh against a charge, you 
deal double damage if you score a hit against a charging character. If 
you use an urgrosh against a charging character, the spear head is 
the part of the weapon that deals damage. 
An urgrosh is also called a spear-axe. Dwarves treat dwarven 
urgroshes as martial weapons. 
Waraxe, Dwarven: A dwarven waraxe is too large to use in one 
hand without special training; thus, it is an exotic weapon. A 
Medium character can use a dwarven waraxe two-handed as a 
martial weapon, or a Large creature can use it one-handed in the 
same way. A dwarf treats a dwarven waraxe as a martial weapon even 
when using it in one hand. 
Warhammer: This weapon, favored by dwarves, is a one-handed 
sledge or maul with a large, heavy head. 
Whip: A whip deals nonlethal damage. It deals no damage to any 
creature with an armor bonus of +1 or higher or a natural armor 
bonus of +3 or higher. The whip is treated as a melee weapon with 
15-foot reach, though you don’t threaten the area into which you can 
make an attack. In addition, unlike most other weapons with reach, 
you can use it against foes anywhere within your reach (including 
adjacent foes). 
Using a whip provokes an attack of opportunity, just as if you had 
used a ranged weapon. 
Because a whip can wrap around an enemy’s leg or other limb, 
you can make trip attacks with a it. If you are tripped during your 
own trip attempt, you can drop the whip to avoid being tripped. 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 