 
 122 
When using a whip, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls 
made to disarm an opponent (including the roll to keep from being 
disarmed if the attack fails). 
You can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to apply your 
Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack rolls 
with a whip sized for you, even though it isn’t a light weapon for 
you. 
 
MASTERWORK WEAPONS 
A masterwork weapon is a finely crafted version of a normal 
weapon. Wielding it provides a +1 enhancement bonus on attack 
rolls. 
You can’t add the masterwork quality to a weapon after it is cre-
ated; it must be crafted as a masterwork weapon (see the Craft skill, 
page 70). The masterwork quality adds 300 gp to the cost of a normal 
weapon (or 6 gp to the cost of a single unit of ammunition, such as 
an arrow). For example, a masterwork bastard sword costs 335 gp, 
while a set of 10 masterwork arrows costs 70 gp. Adding the 
masterwork quality to a double weapon costs twice the normal 
increase (+600 gp). 
Masterwork ammunition is damaged (effectively destroyed) 
when used. The enhancement bonus of masterwork ammunition 
does not stack with any enhancement bonus of the projectile 
weapon firing it. 
All magic weapons are automatically considered to be of 
masterwork quality. The enhancement bonus granted by the 
masterwork quality doesn’t stack with the enhancement bonus 
provided by the weapon’s magic. 
Even though some types of armor and shields (such as spiked 
shields) can be used as weapons, you can’t create a masterwork ver-
sion of such an item that confers an enhancement bonus on attack 
rolls. Instead, masterwork armor and shields have lessened armor 
check penalties (see Masterwork Armor, page 126). 
 
ARMOR 
Your armor protects you in combat, but it can also slow you down. 
See Table 7–6: Armor and Shields for the list of armors available. 
The information given on this table is for armor sized for Medium 
creatures. The time it takes to get into or out of armor depends on its 
type (see Table 7–7: Donning Armor). 
 
ARMOR QUALITIES 
Armor isn’t the only fashion statement a character can make, but it’s 
a big one. In addition, depending on class, a character may be 
proficient with all, some, or no armors, including shields. To wear 
heavier armor effectively, you can select the Armor Proficiency feats 
(page 89), but most classes are automatically proficient in the armors 
that work best for them. 
Armor and shields can take damage from some types of attacks 
(see Sunder, page 158, and Smashing an Object, page 165). 
When selecting your character’s armor, keep in mind the fol-
lowing factors (given as column headings on Table 7–6: Armor and 
Shields). 
Cost: The cost of the armor for Small or Medium humanoid 
creatures. See the Armor for Unusual Creatures sidebar for armor 
prices for other creatures. 
Armor/Shield Bonus: Each armor grants an armor bonus to AC, 
while shields grant a shield bonus to AC. The armor bonus from a 
suit of armor doesn’t stack with other effects or items that grant an 
armor bonus, such as the mage armor  spell or bracers of armor .. 
Similarly, the shield bonus from a shield doesn’t stack with other 
effects that grant a shield bonus, such as the shield spell. 
Maximum Dex Bonus:  This number is the maximum Dexterity 
bonus to AC that this type of armor allows. Heavier armors limit 
your mobility, reducing your ability to dodge blows. For example, 
chainmail permits a maximum Dexterity bonus of +2. A character 
with a Dexterity score of 18 normally gains a +4 bonus to his AC, but 
wearing chainmail drops that bonus to +2. Such a character’s final 
Armor Class would be 17 (10 base + 5 armor bonus + 2 Dex bonus = 
17), assuming he has no other modifiers. This restriction doesn’t 
affect any other Dexterity-related abilities (such as Reflex saves and 
skill checks). 
Even if a character’s Dexterity bonus to AC drops to 0 because of 
armor, this situation does not count as losing a Dexterity bonus to 
AC. For example, a rogue can’t sneak attack a character just because 
you’re wearing half-plate. 
Your character’s encumbrance (the amount of gear he or she 
carries) may also restrict the maximum Dexterity bonus that can be 
applied to his or her Armor Class; see Encumbrance by Armor, page 
161, for details. 
Shields: Shields do not affect a character’s maximum Dexterity 
bonus. 
Armor Check Penalty:  Anything heavier than leather hurts a 
character’s ability to use some skills. An armor check penalty 
number is the penalty that applies to Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, 
Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Sleight of Hand, and Tumble checks by 
a character wearing a certain kind of armor. Double the normal 
armor check penalty is applied to Swim checks. Some characters 
don’t much care about the armor check penalty, but others do. The 
barbarian, in particular, faces a trade-off between heavier armor and 
better skill check results. A character’s encumbrance (the amount of 
gear carried, including armor) may also apply an armor check 
penalty; see Encumbrance by Armor, page 161, for details. 
Shields: If a character is wearing armor and using a shield, both 
armor check penalties apply. 
Nonproficient with Armor Worn:  A character who wears armor 
and/or uses a shield with which he or she is not proficient takes the 
armor’s (and/or shields’s) armor check penalty on attack rolls and on 
all Strength-based and Dexterity-based ability and skill checks. The 
penalty for nonproficiency with armor stacks with the penalty for 
nonprofiency with shields. 
Sleeping in Armor:  A character who sleeps in medium or heavy 
armor is automatically fatigued the next day. He or she takes a –2 
penalty on Strength and Dexterity and can’t charge or run. Sleeping 
in light armor does not cause fatigue. 
Arcane Spell Failure:  Armor interferes with the gestures that a 
spellcaster must make to cast an arcane spell that has a somatic 
component. Arcane spellcasters face the possibility of arcane spell 
failure if they’re wearing armor, so wizards and sorcerers usually 
don’t do so. Bards can wear light armor without incurring any arcane 
spell failure chance for their bard spells. 
Casting an Arcane Spell in Armor:  A character who casts an arcane 
spell while wearing armor must usually make an arcane spell failure 
roll. The number in the Arcane Spell Failure column on Table 7–6 is 
the chance that the spell fails and is ruined. If the spell lacks a 
somatic component, however, it can be cast with no chance of 
arcane spell failure. 
Shields: If a character is wearing armor and using a shield, add the 
two numbers together to get a single arcane spell failure chance. 
Speed: Medium and heavy armor slows the wearer down. It’s 
better to be slow and alive than to be quick and dead, but don’t 
neglect to give speed some thought. The number on Table 7–6 is the 
character’s speed while wearing the armor. Humans, elves, half-
elves, and half-orcs have an unencumbered speed of 30 feet. They 
use the first column. Dwarves, gnomes, and halflings have an 
unencumbered speed of 20 feet. They use the second column. 
Remember, however, that a dwarf’s land speed remains 20 feet even 
in medium or heavy armor or when carrying a medium or heavy 
load. 
Shields: Shields do not affect a character’s speed. 
Weight: This column gives the weight of the armor sized for a 
Medium wearer. Armor fitted for Small characters weighs half as 
much, and armor for Large characters weighs twice as much. 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 