 
 124 
ARMOR DESCRIPTIONS 
The types of armor found on Table 7–6: Armor and Shields are 
described below (in alphabetical order), along with any special 
benefits they confer on the wearer (“you”). 
Armor Spikes: You can have spikes added to your armor, which 
allow you to deal extra piercing damage (see Table 7–5: Weapons) on 
a successful grapple attack. The spikes count as a martial weapon. If 
you are not proficient with them, you take a –4 penalty on grapple 
checks when you try to use them. You can also make a regular melee 
attack (or off-hand attack) with the spikes, and they count as a light 
weapon in this case. (You can’t also make an attack with armor 
spikes if you have already made an attack with another off-hand 
weapon, and vice versa.) 
An enhancement bonus to a suit of armor does not improve the 
spikes’ effectiveness, but the spikes can be made into magic weapons 
in their own right. 
Banded Mail: This armor is made of overlapping strips of metal 
sewn to a backing of leather and chainmail. The strips cover 
vulnerable areas, while the chain and leather protect the joints and 
provide freedom of movement. Straps and buckles distribute the 
weight evenly. The suit includes gauntlets. 
Breastplate: A breastplate covers your front and your back. It 
comes with a helmet and greaves (plates to cover your lower legs). A 
light suit or skirt of studded leather beneath the breastplate protects 
your limbs without restricting movement much. 
Buckler: This small metal shield is worn strapped to your fore-
arm. You can use a bow or crossbow without penalty while carrying 
it. You can also use your shield arm to wield a weapon (whether you 
are using an off-hand weapon or using your off hand to help wield a 
two-handed weapon), but you take a –1 penalty on attack rolls while 
doing so because of the extra weight on your arm. This penalty 
stacks with those that may apply for fighting with your off hand and 
for fighting with two weapons. In any case, if you use a weapon in 
your off hand, you don’t get the buckler’s AC bonus for the rest of 
the round. 
You can’t bash someone with a buckler. 
Chain Shirt: A chain shirt protects your torso while leaving your 
limbs free and mobile. It includes a layer of quilted fabric worn 
underneath to prevent chafing and to cushion the impact of blows. 
A chain shirt comes with a steel cap. 
Chainmail: This armor is made of interlocking metal rings. It 
includes a layer of quilted fabric worn underneath to prevent chaf-
ing and to cushion the impact of blows. Several layers of mail are 
hung over vital areas. Most of the armor’s weight hangs from the 
shoulders, making chainmail uncomfortable to wear for long 
periods of time. The suit includes gauntlets. 
Full Plate: This armor consists of shaped and fitted metal plates 
riveted and interlocked to cover the entire body. The suit includes 
gauntlets, heavy leather boots, a visored helmet, and a thick layer of 
padding that is worn underneath the armor. Buckles and straps 
distribute the weight over the body, so full plate hampers movement 
less than splint mail even though splint is lighter. Each suit of full 
plate must be individually fitted to its owner by a master 
armorsmith, although a captured suit can be resized to fit a new 
owner at a cost of 200 to 800 (2d4 × 100) gold pieces. 
Full plate is also known as field plate. 
Gauntlet, Locked:  This armored gauntlet has small chains and 
braces that allow the wearer to attach a weapon to the gauntlet so 
that it cannot be dropped easily. It provides a +10 bonus on any roll 
made to keep from being disarmed in combat. Removing a weapon 
from a locked gauntlet or attaching a weapon to a locked gauntlet is 
a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity. The price 
given is for a single locked gauntlet. The weight given applies only if 
you’re wearing a breastplate, light armor, or no armor. Otherwise, 
the locked gauntlet replaces a gauntlet you already have as part of 
the armor. 
While the gauntlet is locked, you can’t use the hand wearing it for 
casting spells or employing skills. (You can still cast spells with 
somatic components, provided that your other hand is free.) 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 