 
 125
Like a normal gauntlet, a locked gauntlet lets you deal lethal 
damage rather than nonlethal damage with an unarmed strike. 
Half-Plate: This armor is a combination of chainmail with metal 
plates (breastplate, epaulettes, elbow guards, gauntlets, tasses, and 
greaves) covering vital areas. Buckles and straps hold the whole suit 
together and distribute the weight, but the armor still hangs more 
loosely than full plate. The suit includes gauntlets. 
Hide: This armor is prepared from multiple layers of leather and 
animal hides. It is stiff and hard to move in. Druids, who wear only 
nonmetallic armor, favor hide. 
Leather: The breastplate and shoulder protectors of this armor 
are made of leather that has been stiffened by boiling in oil. The rest 
of the armor is made of softer and more flexible leather. 
Padded: Padded armor features quilted layers of cloth and bat-
ting. It gets hot quickly and can become foul with sweat, grime, lice, 
and fleas. 
Scale Mail: This armor consists of a coat and leggings (and per-
haps a separate skirt) of leather covered with overlapping pieces of 
metal, much like the scales of a fish. The suit includes gauntlets. 
Shield, Heavy, Wooden or Steel:  You strap a shield to your 
forearm and grip it with your hand. A heavy shield is so heavy that 
you can’t use your shield hand for anything else. 
Wooden or Steel:  Wooden and steel shields offer the same basic 
protection, though they respond differently to special attacks (such 
as warp wood and heat metal). 
Shield Bash Attacks: You can bash an opponent with a heavy shield, 
using it as an off-hand weapon. See Table 7–5: Weapons for the 
damage dealt by a shield bash. Used this way, a heavy shield is a mar-
tial bludgeoning weapon. For the purpose of penalties on attack 
rolls, treat a heavy shield as a one-handed weapon. If you use your 
shield as a weapon, you lose its AC bonus until your next action 
(usually until the next round). An enhancement bonus on a shield 
does not improve the effectiveness of a shield bash made with it, but 
the shield can be made into a magic weapon in its own right. 
Shield, Light, Wooden or Steel:  You strap a shield to your 
forearm and grip it with your hand. A light shield’s weight lets you 
carry other items in that hand, although you cannot use weapons 
with it. 
Wooden or Steel:  Wooden and steel shields offer the same basic 
protection, though they respond differently to special attacks (such 
as warp wood and heat metal). 
Shield Bash Attacks:  You can bash an opponent with a light shield, 
using it as an off-hand weapon. See Table 7–5: Weapons for the 
damage dealt by a shield bash. Used this way, a light shield is a 
martial bludgeoning weapon. For the purpose of penalties on attack 
rolls, treat a light shield as a light weapon. If you use your shield as a 
weapon, you lose its AC bonus until your next action (usually until 
the next round). An enhancement bonus on a shield does not 
improve the effectiveness of a shield bash made with it, but the 
shield can be made into a magic weapon in its own right. 
Shield, Tower: This massive wooden shield is nearly as tall as you 
are. In most situations, it provides the indicated shield bonus to your 
AC. However, you can instead use it as total cover, though you must 
give up your attacks to do so. The shield does not, however, provide 
cover against targeted spells; a spellcaster can cast a spell on you by 
targeting the shield you are holding. You cannot bash with a tower 
shield, nor can you use your shield hand for anything else. 
When employing a tower shield in combat, you take a –2 penalty 
on attack rolls because of the shield’s encumbrance. 
Shield Spikes:  When added to your shield, these spikes turn it 
into a martial piercing weapon that increases the damage dealt by a 
shield bash as if the shield were designed for a creature one size 
category larger than you (from 1d4 to 1d6, for instance). You can’t 
put spikes on a buckler or a tower shield. Otherwise, attacking with 
a spiked shield is like making a shield bash attack (see above). An 
enhancement bonus on a spiked shield does not improve the 
effectiveness of a shield bash made with it, but a spiked shield can be 
made into a magic weapon in its own right. 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 