 
 126 
Splint Mail: This armor is made of narrow vertical strips of metal 
riveted to a backing of leather that is worn over cloth padding. Flex-
ible chainmail protects the joints. The suit includes gauntlets. 
Studded Leather:  This armor is made from tough but flexible 
leather (not hardened leather as with normal leather armor) rein-
forced with close-set metal rivets. 
 
MASTERWORK ARMOR 
Just as with weapons, you can purchase or craft masterwork versions 
of armor or shields. Such a well-made item functions like the normal 
version, except that its armor check penalty is lessened by 1. For 
example, a masterwork chain shirt has an armor check penalty of –1 
rather than –2. 
A masterwork suit of armor or shield costs an extra 150 gp over 
and above the normal cost for that type of armor or shield. A mas-
terwork chain shirt would thus cost 250 gp. 
The masterwork quality of a suit of armor or shield never provides 
a bonus on attack or damage rolls, even if the armor or shield is used 
as a weapon (such as spiked armor or a spiked shield). 
All magic armors and shields are automatically considered to be 
of masterwork quality. 
You can’t add the masterwork quality to armor or a shield after it 
is created; it must be crafted as a masterwork item. 
 
GOODS AND SERVICES 
Of course, characters need more than just weapons and armor. Table 
7–8: Goods and Services provides costs and weights for dozens of 
other items, and costs for a variety of services that characters can 
purchase. 
 
ADVENTURING GEAR 
Adventurers face all sorts of challenges and difficulties, and the 
right gear can make the different between a successful adventure 
and failure. Most of this gear is basic equipment that might come in 
handy regardless of a character’s skills or class. 
A few of the pieces of adventuring gear found on Table 7–8: 
Goods and Services (page 128) are described below, along with any 
special benefits they confer on the user (“you”). For objects with 
hardness and hit points, see Smashing an Object, page 165. 
Backpack: A backpack is a leather pack carried on the back, 
typically with straps to secure it. 
Bedroll: You never know where you’re going to sleep, and a 
bedroll helps you get better sleep in a hayloft or on the cold ground. 
A bedroll consists of bedding and a blanket thin enough to be rolled 
up and tied. In an emergency, it can double as a stretcher. 
Blanket, Winter:  A thick, quilted, wool blanket made to keep 
you warm in cold weather. 
Caltrops: A caltrop is a four-pronged iron spike crafted so that 
one prong faces up no matter how the caltrop comes to rest. You 
scatter caltrops on the ground in the hope that your enemies step on 
them or are at least forced to slow down to avoid them. One 2- 
pound bag of caltrops covers an area 5 feet square. 
Each time a creature moves into an area covered by caltrops (or 
spends a round fighting while standing in such an area), it might 
step on one. The caltrops make an attack roll (base attack bonus +0) 
against the creature. For this attack, the creature’s shield, armor, and 
deflection bonuses do not count. (Deflection averts blows as they 
approach, but it does not prevent a creature from touching 
something dangerous.) If the creature is wearing shoes or other 
footwear, it gets a +2 armor bonus to AC. If the caltrops succeed on 
the attack, the creature has stepped on one. The caltrop deals 1 point 
of damage, and the creature’s speed is reduced by one-half because 
its foot is wounded. This movement penalty lasts for 24 hours, or 
until the creature is successfully treated with a DC 15 Heal check, or 
until it receives at least 1 point of magical curing. A charging or 
running creature must immediately stop if it steps on a caltrop. Any 
creature moving at half speed or slower can pick its way through a 
bed of caltrops with no trouble. 
The DM judges the effectiveness of caltrops against unusual 
opponents. A Small monstrous centipede, for example, can slither 
through an area containing caltrops with no chance of hurting itself, 
and a fire giant wearing fire giant-sized boots is immune to normal-
size caltrops. (They just get stuck in the soles of his boots.) 
Candle: A candle dimly illuminates a 5-foot radius and burns for 
1 hour. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. 
Case, Map or Scroll: This capped leather or tin rube holds rolled 
pieces of parchment or paper. 
Chain: Chain has hardness 10 and 5 hit points. It can be burst 
with a DC 26 Strength check. 
Crowbar: This iron bar is made for levering closed items open. A 
crowbar is the perfect tool for prying open doors or chests, shat-
tering chains, and the like, and it grants a +2 circumstance bonus on 
Strength checks made for such purposes. If used in combat, treat a 
crowbar as a one-handed improvised weapon (see page 113) that 
deals bludgeoning damage equal to that of a club of its size. 
Flask: This ceramic, glass, or metal container is fitted with a tight 
stopper and holds 1 pint of liquid. 
Flint and Steel:  Striking steel and flint together creates sparks. 
By knocking sparks into tinder, you can create a small flame. 
Lighting a torch with flint and steel is a full-round action, and 
lighting any other fire with them takes at least that long. 
Grappling Hook:  When tied to the end of a rope, a grappling 
hook can secure the rope to a battlement, window ledge, tree limb, 
or other protrusion. Throwing a grappling hook successfully requi-
res a Use Rope check (DC 10, +2 per 10 feet of distance thrown). 
Hammer: This one-handed hammer with an iron head is useful 
for pounding pitons into a wall. If a hammer is used in combat, treat 
it as a one-handed improvised weapon (see page 113) that deals 
bludgeoning damage equal to that of a spiked gauntlet of its size. 
Ink: This is black ink. You can buy ink in other colors, but it costs 
twice as much. 
Inkpen: An inkpen is a wooden stick with a special tip on the 
end. The tip draws ink in when dipped in a vial and leaves an ink 
trail when drawn across a surface. 
Jug, Clay: This basic ceramic jug is fitted with a stopper and holds 
1 gallon of liquid. 
Ladder, 10-foot: This item is a straight, simple wooden ladder. 
Lamp, Common:  A lamp clearly illuminates a 15-foot radius, 
provides shadowy illumination out to a 30-foot radius, and burns for 
6 hours on a pint of oil. It burns with a more even flame than a 
torch, but, unlike a lantern, it uses an open flame and it can spill 
easily, a fact that makes it too dangerous for most adventuring. You 
can carry a lamp in one hand.  See page 164 for more rules on 
illumination. 
Lantern, Bullseye: A bullseye lantern has only a single shutter. 
Its other sides are highly polished inside to reflect the light in a 
single direction. A bullseye lantern provides clear illumination in a 
60-foot cone and shadowy illumination in a 120-foot cone. It burns 
for 6 hours on a pint of oil. You can carry a bullseye lantern in one 
hand. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. 
Lantern, Hooded:  A hooded lantern has shuttered or hinged 
sides. It clearly illuminates a 30-foot radius and provides shadowy 
illumination in a 60-foot radius. It burns for 6 hours on a pint of oil. 
You can carry a hooded lantern in one hand. See page 164 for more 
rules on illumination. 
Lock: A lock is worded with a large, bulky key. The DC to open a 
lock with the Open Lock skill depends on the lock’s quality: simple 
(DC 20), average (DC 25), good (DC 30), or superior (DC 40). 
Manacles and Manacles, Masterwork:  The manacles detailed 
on Table 7–8: Goods and Services can bind a Medium creature. A 
manacled creature can use the Escape Artist skill to slip free (DC 30, 
or DC 35 for masterwork manacles). Breaking the manacles requires 
a Strength check (DC 26, or DC 28 for masterwork manacles). 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 