 
 127
Manacles have hardness 10 and 10 hit points. Most manacles have 
locks; add the cost of the lock you want to the cost of the manacles. 
For the same cost, you can buy manacles for a Small creature. For 
a Large creature, manacles cost ten times the indicated amount, and 
for a Huge creature, one hundred times this amount. Gargantuan, 
Colossal, Tiny, Diminutive, and Fine creatures can be held only by 
specially made manacles. 
Mirror, Small Steel: A polished steel mirror is handy when you 
want to look around corners, signal friends with reflected sunlight, 
keep an eye on a medusa, make sure that you look good enough to 
present yourself to the queen, or examine wounds that you’ve 
received on hard-to-see parts of your body. 
Oil: A pint of oil burns for 6 hours in a lantern. You can use a 
flask of oil as a splash weapon (see Throw Splash Weapon, page 158). 
Use the rules for alchemist’s fire, except that it takes a full-round 
action to prepare a flask with a fuse. Once it is thrown, there is a 50% 
chance of the flask igniting successfully. 
You can pour a pint of oil on the ground to cover an area 5 feet 
square, provided that the surface is smooth. If lit, the oil burns for 2 
rounds and deals 1d3 points of fire damage to each creature in the 
area. 
Paper: A sheet of standard paper is made from cloth fibers. 
Parchment: A sheet of parchment is a piece of goat hide or 
sheepskin that has been prepared for writing on. 
Piton: When a wall doesn’t offer handholds and footholds, you 
can make your own. A piton is a steel spike with an eye through 
which you can loop a rope. (See the Climb skill, page 69). 
Pole, 10-foot: When you suspect a trap, you can put the end of 
your 10-foot pole through that hole in the wall instead of reaching 
in with your hand. 
Pouch, Belt: This leather pouch straps to your belt. It’s good for 
holding small items. 
Ram, Portable: This iron-shod wooden beam is the perfect tool 
for battering down a door. Not only does it gives you a +2 
circumstance bonus on Strength checks made to break open a door 
and it allows a second person to help you without having to roll, 
increasing your bonus by 2 (see Breaking Items, page 167). 
Rations, Trail: Trail rations are compact, dry, high-energy foods 
suitable for travel, such as jerky, dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. 
Rope, Hempen: This rope has 2 hit points and can be burst with 
a DC 23 Strength check. 
Rope, Silk: This rope has 4 hit points and can be burst with a DC 
24 Strength check. It is so supple that it provides a +2 circumstance 
bonus on Use Rope checks. 
Sack: This item is made of burlap or a similar material and has a 
drawstring so it can be closed. 
Signet Ring: Each signet ring has a distinctive design carved into 
it. When you press this ring into warm sealing wax, you leave an 
identifying mark. 
Sledge: This two-handed, iron-headed hammer is good for 
smashing open treasure chests. 
Spyglass: Objects viewed through a spyglass are magnified to 
twice their size. 
Tent: This simple tent sleeps two. 
Torch: A typical torch is a wooden rod capped with a twisted flax 
soaked in tallow. A torch burns for 1 hour, clearly illuminating a 20-
foot radius and providing shadowy illumination out to a 40- foot 
radius. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. If a torch is used 
in combat, treat it as a one-handed improvised weapon (see page 
113) that deals bludgeoning damage equal to that of a gauntlet of its 
size, plus 1 point of fire damage. 
Vial: This ceramic, glass, or metal vial is fitted with a tight stopper 
and holds 1 ounce of liquid. The stoppered container usually is no 
more than 1 inch wide and 3 inches high. 
Waterskin: A waterskin is a leather pouch with a narrow neck 
that is used for holding water. 
 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 