 
 132 
for a human, dwarf, elf, half-elf, or half-orc. A pony is smaller than a 
horse and is a suitable mount for a gnome or halfling. (See the 
Monster Manual for more information on horses and ponies.) 
Warhorses and warponies can be ridden easily into combat. Light 
horses, ponies, and heavy horses are hard to control in combat (see 
Mounted Combat, page 157, and the Ride skill, page 80). 
Saddle, Exotic:  An exotic saddle is like a normal saddle of the 
same sort except that it is designed for an unusual mount, such as a 
hippogriff. Exotic saddles come in military, pack, and riding styles. 
Saddle, Military: A military saddle braces the rider, providing a 
+2 circumstance bonus on Ride checks related to staying in the 
saddle. If you’re knocked unconscious while in a military saddle, 
you have a 75% chance to stay in the saddle (compared to 50% for a 
riding saddle). 
Saddle, Pack:  A pack saddle holds gear and supplies, but not a 
rider. It holds as much gear as the mount can carry. (The Monster 
Manual has notes on how much mounts can carry.) 
Saddle, Riding: The standard riding saddle supports a rider. 
Stabling: Includes a stable, feed, and grooming. 
 
TRANSPORT 
If you can’t go where you need to by horse—whether because of 
excess gear or distance—you’ll need some other form of transport. 
Carriage: This four-wheeled vehicle can transport as many as 
four people within an enclosed cab, plus two drivers. In general, two 
horses (or other beasts of burden) draw it. A carriage comes with the 
harness needed to pull it. 
Cart: This two-wheeled vehicle can be drawn by a single horse (or 
other beast of burden). It comes with a harness. 
Galley: This three-masted ship has seventy oars on either side and 
requires a total crew of 200. A galley is 130 feet long and 20 feet 
wide, and it can carry 150 tons of cargo or 250 soldiers. For 8,000 gp 
more, it can be fitted with a ram and castles with firing platforms 
fore, aft, and amidships. This ship cannot make sea voyages and 
sticks to the coast. It moves about 4 miles per hour when being 
rowed or under sail. 
Keelboat: This 50- to 75-foot-long ship is 15 to 20 feet wide and 
has a few oars to supplement its single mast with a square sail. It has 
a crew of eight to fifteen and can carry 40 to 50 tons of cargo or 100 
soldiers. It can make sea voyages, as well as sail down rivers (thanks 
to its flat bottom). It moves about 1 mile per hour. 
Longship: This 75-foot-long ship with forty oars requires a total 
crew of 50. It has a single mast and a square sail, and it can carry 50 
tons of cargo or 120 soldiers. A longship can make sea voyages. It 
moves about 3 miles per hour when being rowed or under sail. 
Rowboat: This 8- to 12-foot-long boat holds two or three Medium 
passengers. It moves about 1-1/2 miles per hour. 
Sailing Ship: This larger, seaworthy ship is 75 to 90 feet long and 
20 feet wide and has a crew of 20. It can carry 150 tons of cargo. It 
has square sails on its two masts and can make sea voyages. It moves 
about 2 miles per hour. 
Sled: This is a wagon on runners for moving through snow and 
over ice. In general, two horses (or other beasts of burden) draw it. A 
sled comes with the harness needed to pull it. 
Wagon: This is a four-wheeled, open vehicle for transporting 
heavy loads. In general, two horses (or other beasts of burden) draw 
it. A wagon comes with the harness needed to pull it. 
Warship: This 100-foot-long ship has a single mast, although oars 
can also propel it. It has a crew of 60 to 80 rowers. This ship can 
carry 160 soldiers, but not for long distances, since there isn’t room 
for supplies to support that many people. The warship cannot make 
sea voyages and sticks to the coast. It is not used for cargo. It moves 
about 2-1/2 miles per hour when being rowed or under sail. 
 
SPELLCASTING AND SERVICES 
Sometimes the best solution for a problem is to hire someone else to 
take care of it. Since the characters are adventurers, such a solution 
should be the exception rather than the rule, but there will come 
times when the PCs prefer to pay someone else to handle some-
thing, whether that something is to deliver a message, cast a spell, or 
ferry them across the sea. 
Coach Cab: The price given is for a ride in a coach that transports 
people (and light cargo) between towns. For a ride in a cab that 
transports passengers within a city, 1 copper piece usually takes you 
anywhere you need to go. 
Hireling, Trained:  The amount given is the typical daily wage 
for mercenary warriors, masons, craftsmen, scribes, teamsters, and 
other trained hirelings. This value represents a minimum wage; 
many such hirelings require significantly higher pay (see the Dun-
geon Master’s Guide for more details). 
Hireling, Untrained:  The amount shown is the typical daily 
wage for laborers, porters, cooks, maids, and other menial workers. 
Messenger: This entry includes horse-riding messengers and 
runners. Those willing to carry a message to a place they were going 
anyway (a crew member on a ship, for example) may ask for only 
half the indicated amount. 
Road or Gate Toll:  A toll is sometimes charged to cross a well-
trodden, well-kept, and well-guarded road to pay for patrols on it and 
for its upkeep. Occasionally, a large walled city charges a toll to enter 
or exit (or sometimes just to enter). 
Ship’s Passage:  Most ships do not specialize in passengers, but 
many have the capability to take a few along when transporting 
cargo. Double the given cost for creatures larger than Medium or 
creatures that are otherwise difficult to bring aboard a ship. 
Spell: The indicated amount is how much it costs to get a spell-
caster to cast a spell for you. This cost assumes that you can go to the 
spellcaster and have the spell cast at his or her convenience 
(generally at least 24 hours later, so that the spellcaster has time to 
prepare the spell in question). If you want to bring the spellcaster 
somewhere to cast a spell, such as into a dungeon to cast knock on a 
secret door that you can’t open, you need to negotiate with him or 
her, and the default answer is no. 
The cost given is for a spell with no cost for a material component 
or focus component and no XP cost. If the spell includes a material 
component, add the cost of that component to the cost of the spell. 
If the spell has a focus component (other than a divine focus), add 
1/10 the cost of that focus to the cost of the spell. If the spell has an 
XP cost, add 5 gp per XP lost. For instance, to get a 9th-level cleric to 
cast commune for you, you need to pay 450 gp for a 5th-level spell at 
caster level 9th, plus 500 gp for the 100 XP loss that the caster suf-
fers, plus 25 gp for the holy water, for a total of 975 gp. 
Furthermore, if a spell has dangerous consequences (such as 
contact other plane ), the spellcaster will certainly require proof that 
you can and will pay for dealing with any such consequences (that 
is, assuming that the spellcaster even agrees to cast such a spell, 
which isn’t certain). In the case of spells that transport the caster and 
characters over a distance (such as teleport), you will likely have to 
pay for two castings of the spell, even if you aren’t returning with 
the caster. 
In addition, not every town or village has a spellcaster of suffi-
cient level to cast any spell. In general, you must travel to a small 
town (or larger settlement) to be reasonably assured of finding a 
spellcaster capable of casting 1st-level spells, a large town for 2nd-
level spells, a small city for 3rd- or 4th-level spells, a large city for 
5th- or 6th-level spells, and a metropolis for 7th- or 8th-level spells. 
Even a metropolis isn’t guaranteed to have a local spellcaster able to 
cast 9th-level spells, so seeking out such a caster may become an 
adventure itself. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide  has more information 
on settlement sizes and demographics.) 
Because you must get an actual spellcaster to cast a spell for you 
and can’t rely on a neutral broker, money is not always sufficient to 
get a spell cast. If the spellcaster is opposed to you on religious, 
moral, or political grounds, you may not be able to get the spell you 
want for any price. The DM always sets the final price of any 
spellcasting you want to purchase. 
CHAPTER 7: 
EQUIPMENT 