 
 134 
ATTACK ROLL 
An attack roll represents your attempt to strike your opponent on 
your turn in a round. When you make an attack roll, you roll a d20 
and add your attack bonus. (Other modifiers may also apply to this 
roll.) If your result equals or beats the target’s Armor Class, you hit 
and deal damage. 
Automatic Misses and Hits:  A natural 1 (the d20 comes up 1) 
on an attack roll is always a miss. A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) 
is always a hit. A natural 20 is also a threat—a possible critical hit 
(see the Critical Hits sidebar, page 140). 
 
ATTACK BONUS 
Your attack bonus with a melee weapon is: 
Base attack bonus + Strength modifier + size modifier 
With a ranged weapon, your attack bonus is: 
Base attack bonus + Dexterity modifier + size modifier 
+ range penalty 
 
Strength Modifier: Strength helps you swing a weapon harder 
and faster, so your Strength modifier applies to melee attack rolls. 
Dexterity Modifier:  Dexterity measures coordination and 
steadiness, so your Dexterity modifier applies to attacks with ranged 
weapons. 
Size Modifier:  The smaller you are, the bigger other creatures 
are relative to you. A human is a big target to a halfling, just as an 
ogre is a big target to a human. Since this same size modifier applies 
to Armor Class, two creatures of the same size strike each other 
normally, regardless of what size they actually are. 
 
Table 8–1: Size Modifiers 
Size Size Modifier Size Size Modifier 
Colossal –8 Small +1 
Gargantuan –4 Tiny +2 
Huge –2 Diminutive +4 
Large –1 Fine +8 
Medium +0  
Range Penalty: The range penalty for a ranged weapon depends 
on the weapon and the distance to the target. All ranged weapons 
have a range increment, such as 10 feet for a thrown dart or 100 feet 
for a longbow (see Table 7–5: Weapons, page 116). Any attack from a 
distance of less than one range increment is not penalized for range, 
so an arrow from a shortbow (range increment 60 feet) can strike at 
enemies up to 59 feet away with no penalty. However, each full 
range increment causes a cumulative –2 penalty on the attack roll. A 
shortbow archer firing at a target 200 feet away takes a –6 penalty on 
his attack roll (because 200 feet is at least three range increments but 
not four increments). 
Thrown weapons, such as throwing axes, have a maximum range 
of five range increments. Projectile weapons, such as bows, can 
shoot up to ten increments. 
 
DAMAGE 
When your attack succeeds, you deal damage. The type of weapon 
used (see Table 7–5: Weapons, page 116) determines the amount of 
damage you deal. Effects that modify weapon damage apply to 
unarmed strikes and the natural physical attack forms of creatures. 
Damage reduces a target’s current hit points. 
Minimum Damage: If penalties reduce the damage result to less 
than 1, a hit still deals 1 point of damage. 
Strength Bonus: When you hit with a melee or thrown weapon, 
including a sling, add your Strength modifier to the damage result. 
A Strength penalty, but not a bonus, applies on attacks made with a 
bow that is not a composite bow. 
Off-Hand Weapon: When you deal damage with a weapon in your 
off hand, you add only 1/2 your Strength bonus. 
Wielding a Weapon Two-Handed:  When you deal damage with a 
weapon that you are wielding two-handed, you add 1-1/2 times your 
Strength bonus. However, you don’t get this higher Strength bonus 
when using a light weapon with two hands (see Light, One-Handed, 
and Two-Handed Melee Weapons, page 113). 
Multiplying Damage: Sometimes you multiply damage by some 
factor, such as on a critical hit. Roll the damage (with all modifiers) 
multiple times and total the results. Note: When you multiply 
damage more than once, each multiplier works off the original, 
unmultiplied damage (see Multiplying, page 304). 
Exception: Extra damage dice over and above a weapon’s normal 
damage, such as that dealt by a sneak attack or the special ability of a 
flaming sword, are never multiplied. 
For example, Krusk the half-orc barbarian has a Strength bonus of 
+3. That means he gets a +3 bonus on damage rolls when using a 
longsword, a +4 bonus on damage when using a greataxe (two-
handed), and a +1 bonus to damage when using a weapon in his off 
hand. His critical multiplier with a greataxe is ×3, so if he scores a 
critical hit with that weapon, he would roll 1d12+4 points of damage 
three times (the same as rolling 3d12+12). 
Ability Damage: Certain creatures and magical effects can cause 
temporary ability damage (a reduction to an ability score). The 
Dungeon Master’s Guide has details on ability damage. 
 
ARMOR CLASS 
Your Armor Class (AC) represents how hard it is for opponents to 
land a solid, damaging blow on you. It’s the attack roll result that an 
opponent needs to achieve to hit you. The average, unarmored 
peasant has an AC of 10. Your AC is equal to the following: 
 
10 + armor bonus + shield bonus + Dexterity modifier 
+ size modifier 
 
Armor and Shield Bonuses:  Your armor and shield each pro-
vide a bonus to your AC. This bonus represents their ability to pro-
tect you from blows. 
Dexterity Modifier:  If your Dexterity is high, you are adept at 
dodging blows. If your Dexterity is low, you are inept at it. That’s 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 