 
 138 
make two separate attacks of opportunity (since each one represents 
a different opportunity). Moving out of more than one square 
threatened by the same opponent in the same round doesn’t count 
as more than one opportunity for that opponent. All these attacks 
are at your full normal attack bonus. 
 
ACTIONS IN COMBAT 
The fundamental actions of moving, attacking, and casting spells 
cover most of what you want to do in a battle. They’re all described 
here. Other, more specialized options are covered later in Special 
Attacks, page 154, and Special Initiative Actions, page 160. 
 
THE COMBAT ROUND 
Each round represents 6 seconds in the game world. At the table, a 
round presents an opportunity for each character involved in a 
combat situation to take an action. Anything a person could 
reasonably do in 6 seconds, your character can do in 1 round. 
Each round’s activity begins with the character with the highest 
initiative result and then proceeds, in order, from there. Each round 
of a combat uses the same initiative order. When a character’s turn 
comes up in the initiative sequence, that character performs his 
entire round’s worth of actions. (For exceptions, see Attacks of 
Opportunity, page 137, and Special Initiative Actions, page 160.) 
For almost all purposes, there is no relevance to the end of a 
round or the beginning of a round. The term “round” works like the 
word “month.” A month can mean either a calendar month or a span 
of time from a day in one month to the same day the next month. In 
the same way, a round can be a segment of game time starting with 
the first character to act and ending with the last, but it usually 
means a span of time from one round to the same initiative count in 
the next round. Effects that last a certain number of rounds end just 
before the same initiative count that they began on. 
For example, a monk acts on initiative count 15. The monk’s 
stunning attack stuns a creature for 1 round. The stun lasts through 
initiative count 16 in the next round, not until the end of the 
current round. On initiative count 15 in the next round, the stun 
effect has ended and the previously stunned creature can act. 
 
ACTION TYPES 
An action’s type essentially tells you how long the action takes to 
perform (within the framework of the 6-second combat round) and 
how movement is treated. There are four types of actions: standard 
actions, move actions, full-round actions, and free actions. 
In a normal round, you can perform a standard action and a move 
action, or you can perform a full-round action. You can also perform 
as many free actions (see below) as your DM allows. You can always 
take a move action in place of a standard action. 
In some situations (such as in a surprise round), you may be 
limited to taking only a single move action or standard action. 
Standard Action: A standard action allows you to do something. 
The most common type of standard action is an attack—a single 
melee or ranged attack. Other common standard actions including 
casting a spell, concentrating to maintain an active spell, activating a 
magic item, and using a special ability. See Table 8–2: Actions in 
Combat for other standard actions. 
Move Action: A move action allows you to move your speed or 
perform an action that takes a similar amount of time. You can move 
your speed, climb one-quarter of your speed, draw or stow a weapon 
or other item, stand up, pick up an object, or perform some 
equivalent action (see Table 8–2: Actions in Combat). 
You can take a move action in place of a standard action. For in-
stance, rather than moving your speed and attacking, you could 
stand up and move your speed (two move actions), put away a 
weapon and climb one-quarter of your speed (two move actions), or 
pick up an item and stow it in your backpack (two move actions). 
If you move no actual distance in a round (commonly because 
you have swapped your move for one or more equivalent actions, 
such as standing up), you can take one 5-foot step either before, 
during, or after the action. For example, if Tordek is on the ground, 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 