 
 139
he can stand up (a move action), move 5 feet (a 5-foot step), and then 
attack. 
Full-Round Action: A full-round action consumes all your effort 
during a round. The only movement you can take during a full-
round action is a 5-foot step before, during, or after the action. You 
can also perform free actions (see below) as your DM allows. The 
most common type of full-round action is a full attack, which allows 
you to make multiple melee or ranged attacks in a single round. 
Some full-round actions do not allow you to take a 5-foot step. 
Some full-round actions can be taken as standard actions, but only 
in situations when you are limited to performing only a standard 
action during your round (such as in a surprise round). The 
descriptions of specific actions, below, detail which actions allow 
this option. 
Free Action: Free actions consume a very small amount of time 
and effort, and over the span of the round, their impact is so minor 
that they are considered free. You can perform one or more free 
actions while taking another action normally. However, the DM 
puts reasonable limits on what you can really do for free. For in-
stance, calling out to your friends for help, dropping an object, and 
ceasing to concentrate on a spell are all free actions. 
Not an Action:  Some activities are so minor that they are not 
even considered free actions. They literally don’t take any time at all 
to do and are considered an inherent part of doing something else. 
For instance, using the Use Magic Device skill (page 85) while 
trying to activate a device is not an action, it is part of the standard 
action to activate a magic item. 
Restricted Activity:  In some situations (such as when you’re 
slowed or during a surprise round), you may be unable to take a full 
round’s worth of actions. In such cases, you are restricted to taking 
only a single standard action or a single move action (plus free 
actions as normal). You can’t take a full-round action (though you 
can start or complete a full-round action by using a standard action; 
see below). 
 
STANDARD ACTIONS 
Most standard actions involve making an attack, casting a spell, or 
activating an item. These are the most common, straightforward 
actions that a character might take in a combat round. More spe-
cialized actions are covered in Special Attacks, page 154. 
 
Attack 
Making an attack is a standard action. 
Melee Attacks: With a normal melee weapon, you can strike any 
opponent within 5 feet. (Opponents within 5 feet are considered 
adjacent to you.) Some melee weapons have reach, as indicated in 
their descriptions in Chapter 7: Equipment. With a typical reach 
weapon, you can strike opponents 10 feet away, but you can’t strike 
adjacent foes (those within 5 feet). 
Unarmed Attacks: Striking for damage with punches, kicks, and 
head butts is much like attacking with a melee weapon, except for 
the following: 
Attacks of Opportunity:  Attacking unarmed provokes an attack of 
opportunity from the character you attack, provided she is armed. 
The attack of opportunity comes before your attack. An unarmed 
attack does not provoke attacks of opportunity from other foes, as 
shooting a bow does, nor does it provoke an attack of opportunity 
from an unarmed foe. You provoke the attack of opportunity be-
cause you have to bring your body close to your opponent. 
An unarmed character can’t take attacks of opportunity (but see 
“Armed” Unarmed Attacks, below). 
“Armed” Unarmed Attacks:  Sometimes a character’s or creature’s 
unarmed attack counts as an armed attack. A monk, a character with 
the Improved Unarmed Strike feat (page 96), a spellcaster delivering 
a touch attack spell, and a creature with claws, fangs, and similar 
natural physical weapons all count as being armed. Note that being 
armed counts for both offense and defense. Not only does a monk 
not provoke an attack opportunity when attacking an armed foe, but 
you provoke an attack of opportunity from a monk if you make an 
unarmed attack against her. 
Unarmed Strike Damage:  An unarmed strike from a Medium 
character deals 1d3 points of damage (plus your Strength modifier, 
as normal). A Small character’s unarmed strike deals 1d2 points of 
damage, while a Large character’s unarmed strike deals 1d4 points of 
damage. All damage from unarmed strikes is nonlethal damage. 
Unarmed strikes count as light weapons (for purposes of two-
weapon attack penalties and so on). 
Dealing Lethal Damage:  You can specify that your unarmed strike 
will deal lethal damage before you make your attack roll, but you 
take a –4 penalty on your attack roll because you have to strike a 
particularly vulnerable spot to deal lethal damage. . If you have the 
Improved Unarmed Strike feat, you can deal lethal damage with an 
unarmed strike without taking a penalty on the attack roll. 
Ranged Attacks: With a ranged weapon, you can shoot or throw 
at any target that is within the weapon’s maximum range and in line 
of sight. The maximum range for a thrown weapon is five range 
increments. For projectile weapons, it is ten range increments. Some 
ranged weapons have shorter maximum ranges, as specified in their 
descriptions. 
Attack Rolls:  An attack roll represents your attempts to strike 
your opponent. It does not represent a single swing of the sword, for 
example. Rather, it indicates whether, over several attempts in the 
round, you managed to connect solidly. 
Your attack roll is 1d20 + your attack bonus with the weapon 
you’re using. If the result is at least as high as the target’s AC, you hit 
and deal damage. 
Automatic Misses and Hits:  A natural 1 (the d20 comes up 1) 
on the attack roll is always a miss. A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 
20) is always a hit. A natural 20 is also a threat—a possible critical hit 
(see the Critical Hits sidebar, page 140). 
Damage Rolls:  If the attack roll result equals or exceeds the 
target’s AC, the attack hits and you deal damage. Roll the appropriate 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 