 
 141
target, or between casting the spell and touching the target. You can 
automatically touch one friend or use the spell on yourself, but to 
touch an opponent, you must succeed on an attack roll. 
Touch Attacks: Since you need only touch your enemy, you make a 
touch attack instead of a regular attack. Touching an opponent with 
a touch spell is considered to be an armed attack and therefore does 
not provoke attacks of opportunity. The touch spell provides you 
with a credible threat that the defender is obliged to take into 
account just as if it were a weapon. However, the act of casting a 
spell does provoke an attack of opportunity, so you may want to cast 
the spell and then move to the target instead of vice versa. Touch 
attacks come in two types: melee touch attacks (for touches made 
with, say, your hand) and ranged touch attacks (for touches made 
with magic rays, for example). You can score critical hits with either 
type of attack. Your opponent’s AC against a touch attack does not 
include any armor bonus, shield bonus, or natural armor bonus. His 
size modifier, Dexterity modifier, and deflection bonus (if any) all 
apply normally. 
Holding the Charge:  If you don’t discharge the spell in the round 
when you cast the spell, you can hold the discharge of the spell 
(hold the charge) indefinitely. You can continue to make touch 
attacks round after round. You can touch one friend as a standard 
action or up to six friends as a full-round action. If you touch 
anything or anyone while holding a charge, even unintentionally, 
the spell discharges. If you cast another spell, the touch spell 
dissipates. Alternatively, you may make a normal unarmed attack (or 
Table 8–2: Actions in Combat 
 Attack of 
Standard Action Opportunity 1 
Attack (melee) No 
Attack (ranged) Yes 
Attack (unarmed) Yes 
Activate a magic item other than a potion or oil No 
Aid another (page 154) Maybe 2 
Bull rush (page 154) No 
Cast a spell (1 standard action casting time) Yes 
Concentrate to maintain an active spell No 
Dismiss a spell No 
Draw a hidden weapon (see Sleight of Hand, page 81) No 
Drink a potion or apply an oil Yes 
Escape a grapple (page 156) No 
Feint (page 155) No 
Light a torch with a tindertwig (page 129) Yes 
Lower spell resistance No 
Make a dying friend stable (see Heal, page 75) Yes 
Overrun (page 157) No 
Read a scroll Yes 
Ready (triggers a standard action) No 
Sunder a weapon (attack) Yes 
Sunder an object (attack) Maybe 3 
Total defense No 
Turn or rebuke undead (page 159) No 
Use extraordinary ability No 
Use skill that takes 1 action Usually 
Use spell-like ability Yes 
Use supernatural ability No 
 
 Attack of 
Move Action Opportunity
1 
Move Yes 
Control a frightened mount Yes 
Direct or redirect an active spell No 
Draw a weapon4 No 
Load a hand crossbow or light crossbow Yes 
Open or close a door No 
Mount a horse or dismount No 
Move a heavy object Yes 
Pick up an item Yes 
Sheathe a weapon Yes 
Stand up from prone Yes 
Ready or loose a shield
4 No 
Retrieve a stored item Yes 
 
 Attack of 
Full-Round Action Opportunity
1 
Full attack No 
Charge5 (page 154) No 
Deliver coup de grace (page 153) Yes 
Escape from a net (page 119) Yes 
 
Extinguish flames No 
Light a torch Yes 
Load a heavy or repeating crossbow Yes 
Lock or unlock weapon in locked gauntlet Yes 
Prepare to throw splash weapon (page 158) Yes 
Run Yes 
Use skill that takes 1 round Usually 
Use touch spell on up to six friends (page 141) Yes 
Withdraw5 No 
 
 Attack of 
Free Action Opportunity 1 
Cast a quickened spell (page 98) No 
Cease concentration on a spell No 
Drop an item No 
Drop to the floor No 
Prepare spell components to cast a spell6 No 
Speak No 
 
 Attack of 
No Action Opportunity 1 
Delay No 
5-foot step No 
 
Action Type Varies 
Disarm7 (page 155) Yes 
Grapple7 (page 155) Yes 
Trip an opponent7 (page 158) No 
Use feat8 Varies 
 
1 Regardless of the action, if you move out of a threatened square, you 
usually provoke an attack of opportunity. This column indicates 
whether the action itself, not moving, provokes an attack of 
opportunity. 
2 If you aid someone performing an action that would normally 
provoke an attack of opportunity, then the act of aiding another 
provokes an attack of opportunity as well. 
3 If the object is being held, carried, or worn by a creature, yes. If not, 
no. 
4 If you have a base attack bonus of +1 or higher, you can combine 
one of these actions with a regular move. If you have the Two- 
Weapon Fighting feat, you can draw two light or one-handed 
weapons in the time it would normally take you to draw one. 
5 May be taken as a standard action if you are limited to taking only a 
single action in a round. 
6 Unless the component is an extremely large or awkward item (DM’s 
call). 
7 These attack forms substitute for a melee attack, not an action. As 
melee attacks, they can be used once in an attack or charge action, 
one or more times in a full attack action, or even as an attack of 
opportunity. 
8 The description of a feat defines its effect. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 