 
 142 
an attack with a natural weapon) while holding a charge. In this 
case, you aren’t considered armed and you provoke attacks of 
opportunity as normal for the attack. (If your unarmed attack or 
natural weapon attack doesn’t provoke attacks of opportunity, 
neither does this attack.) If the attack hits, you deal normal damage 
for your unarmed attack or natural weapon and the spell discharges. 
If the attack misses, you are still holding the charge. 
Dismiss a Spell: Dismissing an active spell (such as alter self) is a 
standard action that doesn’t provoke attacks of opportunity. 
 
Activate Magic Item 
Many magic items don’t need to be activated—magic weapons, 
magic armor, gauntlets of Dexterity , and so forth. However, certain 
magic items need to be activated, especially potions, scrolls, wands, 
rods, and staffs. Activating a magic item is a standard action (unless 
the item description indicates otherwise). 
Spell Completion Items:  Activating a spell completion item, 
such as a scroll, is the equivalent of casting a spell. It requires con-
centration and provokes attacks of opportunity. You lose the spell if 
your concentration is broken, and you can attempt to activate the 
item while on the defensive, as with casting a spell (see Casting on 
the Defensive, above). 
Spell Trigger, Command Word, or Use-Activated Items:  
Activating any of these kinds of items does not require concentra-
tion and does not provoke attacks of opportunity. The Dungeon 
Master’s Guide has much more information on magic items. 
 
Use Special Ability 
Using a special ability is usually a standard action, but whether it is a 
standard action, a full-round action, or not an action at all is defined 
by the ability (see Special Abilities, page 180). 
Spell-Like Abilities: Using a spell-like ability (such as a paladin 
calling her special mount) works like casting a spell in that it 
requires concentration and provokes attacks of opportunity. Spell-
like abilities can be disrupted. If your concentration is broken, the 
attempt to use the ability fails, but the attempt counts as if you had 
used the ability. The casting time of a spell-like ability is 1 standard 
action, unless the ability description notes otherwise. 
Using a Spell-Like Ability on the Defensive:  You may attempt to use a 
spell-like ability on the defensive, just as with casting a spell. If the 
Concentration check (DC 15 + spell level) fails, you can’t use the 
ability, but the attempt counts as if you had used the ability. 
Supernatural Abilities:  Using a supernatural ability (such as a 
cleric’s turn or rebuke undead ability) is usually a standard action 
(unless defined otherwise by the ability’s description). Its use cannot 
be disrupted, does not require concentration, and does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity. 
Extraordinary Abilities: Using an extraordinary ability (such as 
a barbarian’s uncanny dodge ability) is usually not an action because 
most extraordinary abilities automatically happen in a reactive 
fashion. Those extraordinary abilities that are actions are usually 
standard actions that cannot be disrupted, do not require concen-
tration, and do not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
Total Defense 
You can defend yourself as a standard action. You get a +4 dodge 
bonus to your AC for 1 round. Your AC improves at the start of this 
action, so it helps you against any attacks of opportunity you incur 
during the round. You can’t combine total defense with fighting 
defensively or with the benefit of the Combat Expertise feat (since 
both of those require you to declare an attack or full attack). You 
can’t make attacks of opportunity while using total defense. 
 
Start/Complete Full-Round Action 
The “start full-round action” standard action lets you start under-
taking a full-round action, which you can complete in the following 
round by using another standard action. For instance, if you are 
limited to taking only a standard action each turn, you can shoot a 
heavy crossbow every 3 rounds, needing 2 rounds to load it (a full-
round action) and 1 round to shoot it. Also, if you want to cast a spell 
whose casting time is 1 full round, you can start the casting in one 
round and complete it in the following round, for example. You 
can’t use this action to start or complete a full attack, charge, run, or 
withdraw. 
 
MOVE ACTIONS 
With the exception of specific movement-related skills, most move 
actions don’t require a check. 
 
Move 
The simplest move action is moving your speed. If you take this 
kind of move action during your turn, you can’t also take a 5-foot 
step. 
Many nonstandard modes of movement are covered under this 
category, including climbing (up to one-quarter of your speed) and 
swimming (up to one-quarter of your speed). 
Accelerated Climbing: You can climb one-half your speed as a 
move action by accepting a –5 penalty on your Climb check. 
Crawling: You can crawl 5 feet as a move action. Crawling incurs 
attacks of opportunity from any attackers who threaten you at any 
point of your crawl. 
 
Draw or Sheathe a Weapon 
Drawing a weapon so that you can use it in combat, or putting it 
away so that you have a free hand, requires a move action. This 
action also applies to weapon-like objects carried in easy reach, such 
as wands. If your weapon or weapon-like object is stored in a pack or 
otherwise out of easy reach, treat this action as retrieving a stored 
item. 
If y ou have  a base  attack bonus of +1 or  hig he r , y ou m ay  dr aw a 
weapon as a free action combined with a regular move. If you have 
the Two-Weapon Fighting feat (page 102), you can draw two light or 
one-handed weapons in the time it would normally take you to draw 
one. 
Drawing ammunition for use with a ranged weapon (such as 
arrows, bolts, sling bullets, or shuriken) is a free action. 
 
Ready or Loose a Shield 
Strapping a shield to your arm to gain its shield bonus to your AC, or 
unstrapping and dropping a shield so you can use your shield hand 
for another purpose, requires a move action. If you have a base attack 
SPEEDING UP COMBAT 
You can use a few tricks to make combat run faster. 
Attack and Damage:  Roll your attack die and damage die (or dice) at 
the same time. If you miss, you can ignore the damage, but if you hit,
your friends don’t have to wait for you to make a second roll for damage.
Multiple Attacks:  U s e  d ic e  o f  d if f e re nt c o l o rs  s o  y o u  c a n m a k e  y o u r
attack rolls all at once instead of one at a time. Designate which attack is
which color before you roll. 
Dice as Counters: Use dice to keep track of how many rounds a short-
duration magical effect has been active. Each round, turn the die to the 
next number until the effect ends. 
Concealment Rolls: If you know what your chance to miss is because 
of your target’s concealment, you can roll it along with your attack roll. I f 
the concealment roll indicates a miss, just ignore the attack roll. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 