 
 144 
 
Restricted Withdraw: If you are limited to taking only a stan-
dard action each round (for instance, if you have been slowed or 
during a surprise round), you can withdraw as a standard action. In 
this case, you may move up to your speed (rather than up to double 
your speed). 
 
Run 
You can run as a full-round action. (If you do, you do not also get a 5-
foot step.) When you run, you can move up to four times your speed 
in a straight line (or three times your speed if you’re in heavy armor). 
You lose any Dexterity bonus to AC unless you have the Run feat 
(page 99), which allows you to keep your Dexterity bonus to AC 
when running. 
You can run for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution 
score, but after that you must make a DC 10 Constitution check to 
continue running. You must check again each round in which you 
continue to run, and the DC of this check increases by 1 for each 
check you have made. When you fail this check, you must stop 
running. A character who has run to his limit must rest for 1 minute 
(10 rounds) before running again. During a rest period, a character 
can move no faster than a normal move action. 
You can’t run across difficult terrain (page 148), or if you can’t see 
where you’re going. 
A run represents a speed of about 12 miles per hour for an unen-
cumbered human. 
 
Move 5 Feet through Difficult Terrain 
In some situations, your movement may be so hampered that you 
don’t have sufficient speed even to move 5 feet (a single square). In 
such a case, you may spend a full-round action to move 5 feet (1 
square) in any direction, even diagonally. Even though this looks 
like a 5-foot step, it’s not, and thus it provokes attacks of opportunity 
normally. (You can’t take advantage of this rule to move through 
impassable terrain or to move when all movement is prohibited to 
you, such as while paralyzed.) 
FREE ACTIONS 
Free actions don’t take any time at all, though your DM may limit 
the number of free actions you can perform in a turn. Free actions 
rarely incur attacks of opportunity. Some common free actions are 
described below. 
 
Drop an Item 
Dropping an item in your space or into an adjacent square is a free 
action. 
 
Drop Prone 
Dropping to a prone position in your space is a free action. 
 
Speak 
In general, speaking is a free action that you can perform even when 
it isn’t your turn. Some DMs may rule that a character can only 
speak on his turn, or that a character can’t speak while flat-footed 
(and thus can’t warn allies of a surprise threat until he has a chance 
to act). Speaking more than few sentences is generally beyond the 
limit of a free action; to communicate more information than that, 
your DM may require that you take a move action or even a full-
round action. 
 
Cease Concentration on Spell 
You can stop concentrating on an active spell (such as detect evil) as a 
free action. 
 
Cast a Quickened Spell 
You can cast a quickened spell (see the Quicken Spell feat, page 98) 
or any spell whose casting time is designated as a free action (such as 
the feather fall spell) as a free action. Only one such spell can be cast 
in any round, and such spells don’t count toward your normal limit 
of one spell per round. Casting a spell with a casting time of a free 
action doesn’t incur an attack of opportunity. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS 
Some actions don’t fit neatly into the above categories. Some of 
these options are actions that take the place of or are variations on 
the actions described under Standard Actions, Move Actions, and 
Full-Round Actions. For actions not covered below, the DM lets you 
know how long such an action takes to perform and whether doing 
so provokes attacks of opportunity from threatening enemies. The 
variant and special attacks mentioned here are covered under 
Special Attacks, page 154. 
 
Take 5-Foot Step 
You can move 5 feet in any round when you don’t perform any other 
kind of movement. Taking this 5-foot step never provokes an attack 
of opportunity. You can’t take more than one 5-foot step in a round, 
and you can’t take a 5-foot step in the same round when you move 
any distance. 
You can take a 5-foot step before, during, or after your other ac-
tions in the round. For example, you could draw a weapon (a move 
action), take a 5-foot step, and then attack (a standard action), or you 
could cast fireball (a standard action), take a 5-foot step through an 
open door, then close the door (a move action). 
You can only take a 5-foot-step if your movement isn’t hampered 
by difficult terrain (see page 148) or darkness. Any creature with a 
speed of 5 feet or less can’t take a 5-foot step, since moving even 5 
feet requires a move action for such a slow creature. 
You may not take a 5-foot step using a form of movement for 
which you do not have a listed speed. For example, if you don’t have 
a Climb speed listed, you can’t use climbing to make a 5-foot step. 
Similarly, you can’t take a 5-foot step when swimming unless you 
have a listed swim speed. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 