 
 145
 
Use Feat 
Certain feats, such as Whirlwind Attack, let you take special actions 
in combat. Other feats do not require actions themselves, but they 
give you a bonus when attempting something you can already do, 
such as Improved Disarm. Some feats, such as item creation feats,  
are not meant to be used within the framework of combat. The 
individual feat descriptions in Chapter 5 tell you what you need to 
know about them. 
 
Use Skill 
Most skill uses are standard actions, but some might be move 
actions, full-round actions, free actions, or something else entirely. 
The individual skill descriptions in Chapter 4 tell you what sorts of 
actions are required to perform skills. 
 
INJURY AND DEATH 
Your hit points measure how hard you are to kill. No matter how 
many hit points you lose, your character isn’t hindered in any way 
until your hit points drop to 0 or lower. 
 
LOSS OF HIT POINTS 
The most common way that your character gets hurt is to take lethal 
damage and lose hit points, whether from an orc’s falchion, a 
wizard’s lightning bolt  spell, or a fall into molten lava. You record 
your character’s hit point total on your character sheet. As your 
character takes damage, you subtract that damage from your hit 
points, leaving you with your current hit points. Current hit points 
go down when you take damage and go back up when you recover. 
What Hit Points Represent:  Hit points mean two things in the 
game world: the ability to take physical punishment and keep going, 
and the ability to turn a serious blow into a less serious one. For 
some characters, hit points may represent divine favor or inner 
power. When a paladin survives a fireball, you will be hard pressed to 
convince bystanders that she doesn’t have the favor of some higher 
power. 
Damaging Helpless Defenders:  Even if you have lots of hit 
points, a dagger through the eye is a dagger through the eye. When a 
character is helpless, meaning that he can’t avoid damage or deflect 
blows somehow, he’s in trouble (see Helpless Defenders, page 153). 
Effects of Hit Point Damage:  Damage gives you scars, bangs up 
your armor, and gets blood on your tunic, but it doesn’t slow you 
down until your current hit points reach 0 or lower. 
At 0 hit points, you’re disabled. 
At from –1 to –9 hit points, you’re dying. 
At –10 or lower, you’re dead. 
Massive Damage:  If you ever sustain damage so massive that a 
single attack deals 50 points of damage or more and it doesn’t kill 
you outright, you must make a DC 15 Fortitude save. If this saving 
throw fails, you die regardless of your current hit points. This 
amount of damage represents a single trauma so major that it has a 
chance to kill even the toughest creature. If you take 50 points of 
damage or more from multiple attacks, no one of which dealt 50 or 
more points of damage itself, the massive damage rule does not 
apply. 
 
DISABLED (0 HIT POINTS) 
When your current hit points drop to exactly 0, you’re disabled. 
You’re not unconscious, but you’re close to it. You can only take a 
single move or standard action each turn (but not both, nor can you 
take full-round actions). You can take move actions without further 
injuring yourself, but if you perform any standard action (or any 
other action the DM deems as strenuous, including some free 
actions such as casting a quickened spell) you take 1 point of damage 
after the completing the act. Unless your activity increased your hit 
points, you are now at –1 hit points, and you’re dying. 
Healing that raises your hit points above 0 makes you fully 
functional again, just as if you’d never been reduced to 0 or fewer hit 
points. A spellcaster retains the spellcasting capability she had 
before dropping to 0 hit points. 
You can also become disabled when recovering from dying. In 
this case, it’s a step toward recovery, and you can have fewer than 0 
hit points (see Stable Characters and Recovery, below). 
 
DYING (–1 TO –9 HIT POINTS) 
When your character’s current hit points drop to between –1 and –9 
inclusive, he’s dying. 
A dying character immediately falls unconscious and can take no 
actions. 
A dying character loses 1 hit point every round. This continues 
until the character dies or becomes stable (see below). 
 
DEAD (–10 HIT POINTS OR LOWER) 
When your character’s current hit points drop to –10 or lower, or if 
he takes massive damage (see above), he’s dead. A character can also 
die from taking ability damage or suffering an ability drain that 
reduces his Constitution to 0. When a character dies, his soul 
immediately departs. Getting it back into the body is a major hassle 
(see Bringing Back the Dead, page 171). 
 
STABLE CHARACTERS AND RECOVERY 
On the next turn after a character is reduced to between –1 and –9 
hit points and on all subsequent turns, roll d% to see whether the 
dying character becomes stable. He has a 10% chance of becoming 
stable. If he doesn’t, he loses 1 hit point. (A character who’s uncon-
scious or dying can’t use any special action that changes the initia-
tive count on which his action occurs.) 
If the character’s hit points drop to –10 or lower, he’s dead. 
You can keep a dying character from losing any more hit points 
and make him stable with a DC 15 Heal check. 
If any sort of healing cures the dying character of even 1 point of 
damage, he stops losing hit points and becomes stable. 
Healing that raises the dying character’s hit points to 0 makes 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 