 
 147
quietly skirt the fracas seeking a straggler or an unwary opponent to 
strike with a sneak attack. Finally, if the fight is lost, most characters 
seek to remove themselves from the vicinity. Movement is an 
important element for gaining the upper hand on the battlefield. 
Dungeons & D ragons miniatures are on the 30mm scale—a 
miniature figure of a six-foot-tall human is approximately 30mm tall. 
A square on the battle grid is 1 inch across, representing a 5-foot-by-
5-foot area. 
 
TACTICAL MOVEMENT 
Where you can move, how long it takes you to get there, and 
whether you’re vulnerable to attacks of opportunity while you’re 
moving are key questions in combat. 
 
How Far Can Your Character Move? 
Your speed is determined by your race and your armor (see Table 8–
3: Tactical Speed). Your speed while unarmored is your base land 
speed. 
Encumbrance: A character encumbered by carrying a large 
amount of gear, treasure, or fallen comrades may move slower than 
normal (see Carrying Capacity, page 161). 
Hampered Movement:  Difficult terrain, obstacles, or poor vis-
ibility can hamper movement (see Terrain and Obstacles, below, and 
Hampered Movement, page 163). 
Movement in Combat: Generally, you can move your speed in a 
round and still do something, such as swing an axe or cast a spell. If 
you do nothing but move (that is, if you use both of your actions in a 
round to move your speed), you can move double your speed. If you 
spend the entire round running, you can move quadruple your 
speed. If you do something that requires a full round you can only 
take a 5-foot step. 
Bonuses to Speed: A barbarian has a +10 foot bonus to his speed 
(unless he’s wearing heavy armor). Experienced monks also have 
higher speed (unless they’re wearing armor of any sort). In addition, 
many spells and magic items can affect a character’s speed. Always 
apply any modifiers to a character’s speed before adjusting the 
character’s speed based on armor or encumbrance, and remember 
that multiple bonuses of the same type to a character’s speed (such as 
enhancement bonuses) don’t stack. 
 
Table 8–3: Tactical Speed 
 No Armor or Medium or 
Race Light Armor Heavy Armor  
Human, elf, half-elf, half-orc 30 ft.(6 squares) 20 ft.(4 squares) 
Dwarf 20 ft.(4 squares) 20 ft.(4 squares) 
Halfling, gnome 20 ft.(4 squares) 15 ft.(3 squares)  
 
Measuring Distance 
Diagonals: When measuring distance, the first diagonal counts 
as 1 square, the second counts as 2 squares, the third counts as 1, the 
fourth as 2, and so on. (If it helps, you can think of a diagonal as a 
distance of 1.5 squares.) 
You can’t move diagonally past a corner (even by taking a 5-foot 
step). You can move diagonally past a creature, even an opponent. 
You can also move diagonally past other impassable obstacles, such 
as pits. 
Closest Creature: When it’s important to determine the closest 
square or creature to a location, if two squares or creatures are 
equally close, randomly determine which one counts as closest by 
rolling a die. 
 
Moving through a Square 
Friend: You can move through a square occupied by a friendly 
character, unless you are charging (page 154). When you move 
through a square occupied by a friendly character, that character 
doesn’t provide you with cover (see page 150). 
Opponent: You can’t move through a square occupied by an op-
ponent, unless the opponent is helpless (dead, unconscious, 
paralyzed, bound, or the like). You can move through a square 
occupied by a helpless opponent without penalty. (The DM may 
rule that some creatures, such as an enormous dragon, present an 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 