 
 148 
obstacle even when helpless. In such cases, each square you move 
through counts as 2 squares.) 
Ending Your Movement:  You can’t end your movement in the 
same square as another creature unless it is helpless. 
Overrun: During your movement or as part of a charge, you can 
attempt to move through a square occupied by an opponent (see 
Overrun, page 157). 
Tumbling: A trained character can attempt to tumble through a 
square occupied by an opponent (see the Tumble skill, page 84). 
Very Small Creature:  A Fine, Diminutive, or Tiny creature can 
move into or through an occupied square. The creature provokes 
attacks of opportunity when doing so. 
Square Occupied by Creature Three Sizes Larger or Smaller:  
Any creature can move through a square occupied by a creature 
three size categories larger than it is. A gnome (Small), for example, 
can run between the legs of a cloud giant (Huge). 
A big creature can move through a square occupied by a creature 
three size categories smaller than it is. A cloud giant, for example, 
can step over a gnome. 
Designated Exceptions:  Some creatures break the above rules. 
For example, a gelatinous cube fills the squares it occupies to a 
height of 15 feet. A creature that completely fills the squares it 
occupies cannot be moved past, even with the Tumble skill or 
similar special abilities. 
 
Terrain and Obstacles 
The rules presented so far in this section assume that you’re moving 
through an area clear of obstacles or difficult terrain. However, in 
dungeons and wilderness areas, that’s often not the case. 
Difficult Terrain:  D i f f i c u l t  t e r r a i n ,  s u c h  a s  r u b b l e ,  a n  u n e v e n  
cave floor, thick undergrowth, and the like, hampers movement. 
Each square of difficult terrain counts as 2 squares of movement. 
(Each diagonal move into a difficult terrain square counts as 3 
squares.) You can’t run or charge across difficult terrain. 
If you occupy squares with different kinds of terrain, you can 
move only as fast as the most difficult terrain you occupy will allow. 
(This is often significant for creatures whose space fills more than 
one square, such as a giant.) 
Flying and incorporeal creatures are not hampered by difficult 
terrain. 
Obstacles: Like difficult terrain, obstacles can hamper move-
ment. If an obstacle hampers movement but doesn’t completely 
block it, such as a low wall or a deadfall of branches,  each obstructed 
square or obstacle between squares counts as 2 squares of move-
ment. You must pay this cost to cross the barrier, in addition to the 
cost to move into the square on the other side. If you don’t have 
sufficient movement to cross the barrier and move into the square 
on the other side, you can’t cross the barrier. Some obstacles may 
also require a skill check to cross (such as Climb of Jump). 
On the other hand, some obstacles, such as floor-to-ceiling walls, 
block movement entirely. A character can’t move through a 
blocking obstacle. 
Flying and incorporeal creatures can avoid most obstacles though 
a floor-to-ceiling wall blocks a flying creature as well as a landbound 
creature. 
Squeezing: In some cases, you may have to squeeze into or 
through an area that isn’t as wide as the space you take up. (This is 
particularly true for creatures whose space fills more than one 
square, such as a giant.) You can squeeze through or into a space that 
is at least half as wide as your normal space. For instance, an ogre 
(whose space is 10 feet, or 2 squares, wide) can squeeze through or 
into a space at least 5 feet (1 square) wide. Each move into or 
through a narrow space counts as if it were 2 squares, and while 
squeezed in a narrow space you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls and 
a –4 penalty to AC. 
When a Large creature (which normally takes up four squares) 
squeezes into a space that’s one square wide, the creature’s miniature 
figure occupies two squares, centered on the line between the two 
squares. For a bigger creature, center the creature likewise in the 
area it squeezes into. 
A creature can squeeze past an opponent while moving but it can’t 
end its movement in an occupied square. 
To squeeze through or into a space less than half your space’s 
width, you must use the Escape Artist skill (page 73). You can’t 
attack while using Escape Artist to squeeze through or into a narrow 
space, you take a –4 penalty to AC, and you lose any Dexterity bonus 
to AC. 
 
Special Movement Rules 
These rules cover special movement situations. 
Accidentally Ending Movement in an Illegal Space:  Some-
times a character ends its movement while moving through a space 
where it’s not allowed to stop. For example, you might incur an 
attack of opportunity from a monk while moving through a friend’s 
square and become stunned. When that happens, put your 
miniature in the last legal position you occupied, or the closest legal 
position, if there’s a legal position that’s closer. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 