 
 149
Double Movement Cost: When your movement is hampered in 
some way, your movement usually costs double. For example, each 
square of movement through difficult terrain counts as 2 squares, 
and each diagonal move through such terrain counts as 3 squares 
(just as two diagonal moves normally do). 
If movement cost is doubled twice, then each square counts as 4 
squares (or as 6 squares if moving diagonally). If movement cost is 
doubled three times, then each square counts as 8 squares (12 if 
diagonal) and so on. This is an exception to the general rule that two 
doublings are equivalent to a tripling. 
Minimum Movement: Despite penalties to movement, you can 
take a full-round action to move 5 feet (1 square) in any direction, 
even diagonally. (This rule doesn’t allow you to move through im-
passable terrain or to move when all movement is prohibited, such 
as while paralyzed.) Such movement provokes attacks of opportu-
nity as normal (despite the distance covered, this move isn’t a 5-foot 
step). 
 
BIG AND LITTLE CREATURES IN COMBAT 
Creatures smaller than Small or larger than Medium have special 
rules relating to position. This section covers the basics; the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on how to handle 
exceptionally big or small creatures. The illustration on the fol-
lowing page depicts creatures of various size categories. 
Tiny, Diminutive, and Fine Creatures:  Very small creatures 
take up less than 1 square of space. This means that more than one 
such creature can fit into a single square. For example, a Tiny crea-
ture (such as a cat) typically occupies a space only 2-1/2 feet across, 
so four can fit into a single square. Twenty-five Diminutive creatures 
or 100 Fine creatures can fit into a single square. 
Creatures that take up less than 1 square of space typically have a 
natural reach of 0 feet, meaning they can’t reach into adjacent 
squares. They must enter an opponent’s square to attack in melee. 
This provokes an attack of opportunity from the opponent. You can 
attack into your own square if you need to, so you can attack such 
creatures normally. Since they have no natural reach, they do not 
threaten the squares around them. You can move past them without 
provoking attacks of opportunity. They also can’t flank an enemy. 
Large, Huge, Gargantuan, and Colossal Creatures:  Very large 
creatures take up more than 1 square. For instance, an ogre (Large) 
takes up a space 10 feet on a side (2 squares wide). 
Creatures that take up more than 1 square typically have a natural 
reach of 10 feet or more, meaning that they can reach targets even if 
they aren’t in adjacent squares. For instance, an ogre can attack 
targets up to 10 feet (2 squares) away from it in any direction, even 
diagonally. (This is an exception to the rule that 2 squares of 
diagonal distance is measured as 15 feet.) 
Unlike when someone uses a reach weapon, a creature with 
greater than normal natural reach (more than 5 feet) still threatens 
 
Table 8–4: Creature Size and Scale 
Creature Example 
Size Creature Space 1 Natural Reach 1 
Fine Fly 1/2 ft. 0 
Diminutive Toad 1 ft. 0 
Tiny Cat 2-1/2 ft. 0 
Small Halfling 5 ft. 5 ft. 
Medium Human 5 ft. 5 ft. 
Large (tall) Ogre 10 ft. 10 ft. 
Large (long) Horse 10 ft. 5 ft. 
Huge (tall) Cloud giant 15 ft. 15 ft. 
Huge (long) Bulette 15 ft. 10 ft. 
Gargantuan (tall) 50-ft. animated 20 ft. 20 ft. 
 statue 
Gargantuan (long) Kraken 20 ft. 15 ft. 
Colossal (tall) Colossal animated 30 ft. 30 ft. 
 object or more or more 
Colossal (long) Great wyrm 30 ft. 20 ft. 
 red dragon or more or more 
1 These values are typical for creatures of the indicated size. Some 
exceptions exist. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 