 
 150 
sq 
squares adjacent to it. A creature with greater than normal 
natural reach usually gets an attack of opportunity against 
you if you approach it, because you must enter and move within the 
range of its reach before you can attack it. (This attack of oppor-
tunity is not provoked if you take a 5-foot step.) 
Large or larger creatures using reach weapons can strike up to 
double their natural reach but can’t strike at their natural reach or 
less. For example, an ogre with a Large longspear could strike 
with the longspear at opponents 15 or 20 feet away, but not at 
those 5 or 10 feet away. 
 
COMBAT MODIFIERS 
Sometimes you just have to go toe-to-toe in a fight, but you can 
usually gain some advantage by seeking a better position, either 
offensively or defensively. This section covers the rules for when 
you can line up a particularly good attack or are forced to make a 
disadvantageous one. 
 
FAVORABLE AND 
UNFAVORABLE CONDITIONS 
Depending on the situation, you may gain bonuses or take penalties 
on your attack roll. Generally, any situational modifier created by 
the attacker’s position or tactics applies to the attack roll, while any 
situational modifier created by the defender’s position, state, or 
tactics applies to the defender’s AC. Your DM judges what bonuses 
and penalties apply, using Table 8–5: Attack Roll Modifiers and 
Table 8–6: Armor Class Modifiers as guides. 
 
COVER 
One of the best defenses available is cover. By 
taking cover behind a tree, a wall, the side of a 
wagon, or the battlements of a castle, you can 
protect yourself from attacks, especially ranged 
attacks, and also from being spotted. 
To determine whether your target has 
cover from your ranged attack, choose a 
corner of your square. If any line from 
this corner to any corner of the target’s 
square passes through a square or border 
that blocks line of effect or provides 
cover, or through a square occupied by a 
creature, the target has cover (+4 to 
AC). 
 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 