 
 151
Table 8–5: Attack Roll Modifiers 
Attacker is . . . Melee Ranged 
Dazzled –1 –1 
Entangled –2 1 –2 1 
Flanking defender +2 — 
Invisible +2 2 +2 2 
On higher ground +1 +0 
Prone –4 —
3 
Shaken or frightened –2 –2 
Squeezing through a space –4 –4 
1 An entangled character also takes a –4 penalty to Dexterity, which may 
affect his attack roll. 
2 The defender loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. This bonus doesn’t 
apply if the target is blinded. 
3 Most ranged weapons can’t be used while the attacker is prone, but 
you can use a crossbow or shuriken while prone at no penalty.
 
 
When making a melee attack against an adjacent target, your 
target has cover if any line from your square to the target’s square 
goes through a wall (including a low wall). When making a melee 
attack against a target that isn’t adjacent to you (such as with a reach 
weapon), use the rules for determining cover from ranged attacks. 
Low Obstacles and Cover:  A low obstacle (such as a wall no 
higher than half your height) provides cover, but only to creatures 
within 30 feet (6 squares) of it. The attacker can ignore the cover if 
he’s closer to the obstacle than his target. 
Cover and Attacks of Opportunity:  You can’t execute an attack 
of opportunity against an opponent with cover relative to you. 
Cover and Reflex Saves:  Cover grants you a +2 bonus on Reflex 
saves against attacks that originate or burst out from a point on the 
other side of the cover from you, such as a red dragon’s breath 
weapon or a lightning bolt . Note that spread effects (see page 175), 
such as a fireball, can extend around corners and thus negate this 
cover bonus. 
Cover and Hide Checks:  You can use cover to make a Hide 
check. Without cover, you usually need concealment (see below) to 
make a Hide check. 
Table 8–6: Armor Class Modifiers 
Defender is . . . Melee Ranged 
Behind cover +4 +4 
Blinded –2 1 –2 1 
Concealed or invisible — See Concealment — 
Cowering –2 1 –2 1 
Entangled +0 2 +0 2 
Flat-footed +0 1 +0 1 
(such as surprised, balancing, climbing) 
Grappling (but attacker is not) +0 1 +0 1, 3 
Helpless –4 4 +0 4 
(such as paralyzed, sleeping, or bound) 
Kneeling or sitting –2 +2 
Pinned –4
4 +0 4 
Prone –4 +4 
Squeezing through a space –4 –4 
Stunned –2 1 –2 1 
1 The defender loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. 
2 An entangled character takes a –4 penalty to Dexterity. 
3 Roll randomly to see which grappling combatant you strike. That 
defender loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. 
4 Treat the defender’s Dexterity as 0 (–5 modifier). Rogues can sneak 
attack helpless or pinned defenders. See also Helpless Defenders, 
page 153.
 
 
Soft Cover: Creatures, even your enemies, can provide you with 
cover against melee attacks, giving you a +4 bonus to AC. However, 
such soft cover provides no bonus on Reflex saves, nor does soft 
cover allow you to make a Hide check. 
Big Creatures and Cover:  Any creature with a space larger than 
5 feet (1 square) determines cover against melee attacks slightly 
differently than smaller creatures do. Such a creature can choose any 
square that it occupies to determine if an opponent has cover against 
its melee attacks. Similarly, when making a melee attack against 
such a creature, you can pick any of the squares it occupies to 
determine if it has cover against you. 
 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 