 
 152 
Total Cover:  If you don’t have line of effect to your target (for 
instance, if he is completely behind a high wall), he is considered to 
have total cover from you. You can’t make an attack against a target 
that has total cover. 
Varying Degrees of Cover:  In some cases, cover may provide a 
greater bonus to AC and Reflex saves. For instance, a character 
peering around a corner or through an arrow slit has even better 
cover than a character standing behind a low wall or an obstacle. In 
such situations, the DM can double the normal cover bonuses to AC 
and Reflex saves (to +8 and +4, respectively). A creature with this 
improved cover effectively gains improved evasion against any 
attack to which the Reflex save bonus applies (see the improved 
evasion ability in the rogue class description, page 51). Furthermore, 
improved cover provides a +10 bonus on Hide checks. 
The DM may impose other penalties or restrictions to attacks 
depending on the details of the cover. For example, to strike effec-
tively through a narrow opening, you need to use a long piercing 
weapon, such as an arrow or a spear. A battleaxe or a pick just isn’t 
going to get through an arrow slit. 
 
CONCEALMENT 
Besides cover, another way to avoid attacks is to make it hard for 
opponents to know where you are. Concealment encompasses all 
circumstances where nothing physically blocks a blow or shot but 
where something interferes with an attacker’s accuracy. 
Concealment gives the subject of a successful attack a chance that 
the attacker missed because of the concealment. 
Typically, concealment is provided by fog, smoke, a shadowy area, 
darkness, tall grass, foliage, or magical effects that make it difficult to 
pinpoint a target’s location. 
To determine whether your target has concealment from your 
ranged attack, choose a corner of your square. If any line from this 
corner to any corner of the target’s square passes through a square or 
border that provides concealment, the target has concealment. 
When making a melee attack against an adjacent target, your 
target has concealment if his space is entirely within an effect that 
grants concealment (such as a cloud of smoke). When making a 
melee attack against a target that isn’t adjacent to you (for instance, 
with a reach weapon), use the rules for determining concealment 
from ranged attacks. 
In addition, some magical effects (such as the blur and displace-
ment spells) provide concealment against all attacks, regardless of 
whether any intervening concealment exists. 
Concealment Miss Chance: Concealment gives the subject of a 
successful attack a 20% chance that the attacker missed because of 
the concealment. If the attacker hits, the defender must make a miss 
chance percentile roll to avoid being struck. (To expedite play, make 
both rolls at the same time). Multiple concealment conditions (such 
as a defender in a dog and under the effect of a blur spell) do not 
stack. 
Concealment and Hide Checks:  You can use concealment to 
make a Hide check. Without concealment, you usually need cover 
to make a Hide check. 
Total Concealment: If you have line of effect to a target but not 
line of sight (for instance, if he is in total darkness or invisible, or if 
you’re blinded), he is considered to have total concealment from 
you. You can’t attack an opponent that has total concealment, 
though you can attack into a square that you think he occupies. A 
successful attack into a square occupied by an enemy with total 
concealment has a 50% miss chance (instead of the normal 20% miss 
chance for an opponent with concealment). 
You can’t execute an attack of opportunity against an opponent 
with total concealment, even if you know what square or squares the 
opponent occupies. 
Ignoring Concealment: Concealment isn’t always effective. For 
instance, a shadowy area or darkness doesn’t provide any conceal-
ment against an opponent with darkvision. Remember also that 
characters with low-light vision can see clearly for a greater distance 
with the same light source than other characters. A torch, for 
example, lets an elf see clearly for 40 feet in all directions from the 
torch, while a human can see clearly for only 20 feet with the same 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 