 
 154 
also use a bow or crossbow, provided you are adjacent to the target. 
You automatically hit and score a critical hit. If the defender sur-
vives the damage, he must make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + damage 
dealt) or die. A rogue also gets her extra sneak attack damage against 
a helpless opponent when delivering a coup de grace. 
Delivering a coup de grace provokes attacks of opportunity from 
threatening opponents because it involves focused concentration 
and methodical action on the part of the attacker. 
You can’t deliver a coup de grace against a creature that is im-
mune to critical hits, such as a golem. You can deliver a coup de 
grace against a creature with total concealment, but doing this 
requires two consecutive full-round actions (one to “find” the crea-
ture once you’ve determined what square it’s in, and one to deliver 
the coup de grace). 
 
SPECIAL ATTACKS 
This section covers grappling, throwing splash weapons (such as 
acid or holy water), attacking objects (such as trying to hack apart a 
locked chest), turning or rebuking undead (for clerics and paladins), 
and an assortment of other special attacks. 
 
Table 8–7: Special Attacks 
Special Attack  Brief Description 
Aid another  Grant an ally a +2 bonus on attacks or AC 
Bull rush  Push an opponent back 5 feet or more 
Charge  Move up to twice your speed and attack with 
 +2 bonus 
Disarm  Knock a weapon from your opponent’s 
 hands 
Feint  Negate your opponent’s Dex bonus to AC 
Grapple  Wrestle with an opponent 
Overrun  Plow past or over an opponent as you move 
Sunder  Strike an opponent’s weapon or shield 
Throw splash weapon  Throw container of dangerous liquid at target 
Trip  Trip an opponent 
Turn (rebuke) undead  Channel positive (or negative) energy to turn 
 away (or awe) undead 
Two-weapon fighting  Fight with a weapon in each hand  
 
AID ANOTHER 
In melee combat, you can help a friend attack or defend by distract-
ing or interfering with an opponent. If you’re in position to make a 
melee attack on an opponent that is engaging a friend in melee 
combat, you can attempt to aid your friend as a standard action. You 
make an attack roll against AC 10. If you succeed, your friend gains 
either a +2 bonus on his next attack roll against that opponent or a 
+2 bonus to AC against that opponent’s next attack (your choice), as 
long as that attack comes before the beginning of your next turn. 
Multiple characters can aid the same friend, and similar bonuses 
stack. 
You can also use this standard action to help a friend in other 
ways, such as when he is affected by a hypnotism spell or a sleep spell, 
or to assist another character’s skill check (see page 65). 
 
BULL RUSH 
You can make a bull rush as a standard action (an attack) or as part of 
a charge (see Charge, below). When you make a bull rush, you 
attempt to push an opponent straight back instead of damaging him. 
You can only bull rush an opponent who is one size category larger 
than you, the same size, or smaller. 
Initiating a Bull Rush:  First, you move into the defender’s 
space. Doing this provokes an attack of opportunity from each oppo-
nent that threatens you, including the defender. (If you have the 
Improved Bull Rush feat, you don’t provoke an attack of opportunity 
from the defender.) Any attack of opportunity made by anyone 
other than the defender against you during a bull rush has a 25% 
chance of accidentally targeting the defender instead, and any attack 
of opportunity by anyone other than you against the defender like-
wise has a 25% chance of accidentally targeting you. (When some-
one makes an attack of opportunity, make the attack roll and then 
roll to see whether the attack went astray.) 
Second, you and the defender make opposed Strength checks. 
You each add a +4 bonus for each size category you are larger than 
Medium or a –4 penalty for each size category you are smaller than 
Medium. You get a +2 bonus if you are charging. The defender gets a 
+4 bonus if he has more than two legs or is otherwise exceptionally 
stable (such as a dwarf). 
Bull Rush Results:  If you beat the defender’s Strength check 
result, you push him back 5 feet. If you wish to move with the de-
fender, you can push him back an additional 5 feet for each 5 points 
by which your check result is greater than the defender’s check 
result. You can’t, however, exceed your normal movement limit. 
(Note: The defender provokes attacks of opportunity if he is moved. 
So do you, if you move with him. The two of you do not provoke 
attacks of opportunity from each other, however.) 
If you fail to beat the defender’s Strength check result, you move 
5 feet straight back to where you were before you moved into his 
space. If that space is occupied, you fall prone in that space. 
 
CHARGE 
Charging is a special full-round action that allows you to move up to 
twice your speed and attack during the action. However, it carries 
tight restrictions on how you can move. 
Movement During a Charge:  You must move before your 
attack, not after. You must move at least 10 feet (2 squares) and may 
move up to double your speed directly toward the designated oppo-
nent. You must have a clear path toward the opponent, and nothing 
can hinder your movement (such as difficult terrain or obstacles). 
Here’s what it means to have a clear path. First, you must move to 
the closest space from which you can attack the opponent. (If this 
space is occupied or otherwise blocked, you can’t charge.) Second, if 
any line from your starting space to the ending space passes through 
a square that blocks movement (such as a wall), slows movement 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 