 
 155
(such as difficult terrain), or contains a creature (even an ally), you 
can’t charge. (Helpless creatures don’t stop a charge.) 
If you don’t have line of sight to the opponent at the start of your 
turn, you can’t charge that opponent. 
You can’t take a 5-foot step in the same round as a charge. 
If you are able to take only a standard action or a move action on 
your turn, you can still charge, but you are only allowed to move up 
to your speed (instead of up to double your speed). You can’t use this 
option unless you are restricted to taking only a standard action or 
move action on your turn (such as during a surprise round). 
Attacking on a Charge:  After moving, you may make a single 
melee attack. Since you can use the momentum of the charge in 
your favor, you get a +2 bonus on the attack roll. Since a charge is a 
bit reckless, you also take a –2 penalty to your AC until the start of 
your next turn. 
A charging character gets a +2 bonus on the Strength check made 
to bull rush or overrun an opponent (see Bull Rush, above, and 
Overrun, below). 
Even if you have extra attacks, such as from having a high enough 
base attack bonus or from using multiple weapons, you only get to 
make one attack during a charge. 
Lances and Charge Attacks:  A lance deals double damage if 
employed by a mounted character in a charge. 
Weapons Readied against a Charge:  Spears, tridents, and cer-
tain other piercing weapons deal double damage when readied (set) 
and used against a charging character (see Table 7–5: Weapons, page 
116, and Ready, page 160). 
 
DISARM 
As a melee attack, you may attempt to disarm your opponent. If you 
do so with a weapon, you knock the opponent’s weapon out of his 
hands and to the ground. If you attempt the disarm while unarmed, 
you end up with the weapon in your hand. 
If you’re attempting to disarm a melee weapon, follow the steps 
outlined here. If the item you are attempting to disarm isn’t a melee 
weapon (for instance, a bow or a wand), the defender may still 
oppose you with an attack roll, but takes a penalty and can’t attempt 
to disarm you in return if your attempt fails. 
Step 1: Attack of Opportunity.  You provoke an attack of 
opportunity from the target you are trying to disarm. (If you have 
the Improved Disarm feat, you don’t incur an attack of opportunity 
for making a disarm attempt.) If the defender’s attack of opportunity 
deals any damage, your disarm attempt fails. 
Step 2: Opposed Rolls.  You and the defender make opposed at-
tack rolls with your respective weapons. The wielder of a two-
handed weapon on a disarm attempt gets a +4 bonus on this roll, and 
the wielder of a light weapon takes a –4 penalty. (An unarmed strike 
is considered a light weapon, so you always take a penalty when try-
ing to disarm an opponent by using an unarmed strike.) If the com-
batants are of different sizes, the larger combatant gets a bonus on 
the attack roll of +4 per difference in size category. If the targeted 
item isn’t a melee weapon, the defender takes a –4 penalty on the 
roll. 
Step Three: Consequences.  If you beat the defender, the de-
fender is disarmed. If you attempted the disarm action unarmed, 
you now have the weapon. If you were armed, the defender’s 
weapon is on the ground in the defender’s square. 
If you fail on the disarm attempt, the defender may immediately 
react and attempt to disarm you with the same sort of opposed melee 
attack roll. His attempt does not provoke an attack of opportunity 
from you. If he fails his disarm attempt, you do not subsequently get 
a free disarm attempt against him. 
Note: A defender wearing spiked gauntlets (page 118) can’t be 
disarmed. A defender using a weapon attached to a locked gauntlet 
(page 124) gets a +10 bonus to resist being disarmed. 
 
Grabbing Items 
You can use a disarm action to snatch an item worn by the target 
(such as a necklace or a pair of goggles). If you want to have the item 
in your hand, the disarm must be made as an unarmed attack. If the 
item is poorly secured or otherwise easy to snatch or cut away (such 
as a loose cloak or a brooch pinned to the front of a tunic), the 
attacker gets a +4 bonus. Unlike on a normal disarm attempt, failing 
the attempt doesn’t allow the defender to attempt to disarm you. 
This otherwise functions identically to a disarm attempt, as noted 
above. 
You can’t snatch an item that is well secured, such as a ring or 
bracelet, unless you have pinned the wearer (see Grapple). Even 
then, the defender gains a +4 bonus on his roll to resist the attempt. 
 
FEINT 
As a standard action, you can try to mislead an opponent in melee 
combat so that he can’t dodge your next attack effectively. To feint, 
make a Bluff check opposed by a Sense Motive check by your target. 
The target may add his base attack bonus to this Sense Motive 
check. If your Bluff check result exceeds your target’s Sense Motive 
check result, the next melee attack you make against the target does 
not allow him to use his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). This attack 
must be made on or before your next turn. 
Feinting in this way against a nonhumanoid is difficult because 
it’s harder to read a strange creature’s body language; you take a –4 
penalty. Against a creature of animal Intelligence (1 or 2), you take a 
–8 penalty. Against a nonintelligent creature, it’s impossible. 
Feinting in combat does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
Feinting as a Move Action:  With the Improved Feint feat, you 
can attempt a feint as a move action instead of as a standard action. 
 
GRAPPLE 
Grappling means wrestling and struggling hand-to-hand. It’s tricky 
to perform, but sometimes you want to pin foes instead of killing 
them, and sometimes you have no choice in the matter. For 
monsters, grappling can mean trapping you in a toothy maw (the 
purple worm’s favorite tactic) or holding you down so it can claw 
you to pieces (the dire lion’s trick). 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 