 
 156 
Grapple Checks 
Repeatedly in a grapple, you need to make opposed grapple checks 
against an opponent. A grapple check is like a melee attack roll. Your 
attack bonus on a grapple check is: 
 
Base attack bonus + Strength modifier + special size modifier 
 
Special Size Modifier:  The special size modifier for a grapple 
check is as follows: Colossal +16, Gargantuan +12, Huge +8, Large +4, 
Medium +0, Small –4, Tiny –8, Diminutive –12, Fine –16. Use this 
number in place of the normal size modifier you use when making 
an attack roll. 
 
Starting a Grapple 
To start a grapple, you need to grab and hold your target. Starting a 
grapple requires a successful melee attack roll. If you get multiple 
attacks, you can attempt to start a grapple multiple times (at 
successively lower base attack bonuses). 
Step 1: Attack of Opportunity.  You provoke an attack of oppor-
tunity from the target you are trying to grapple. If the attack of 
opportunity deals damage, the grapple attempt fails. (Certain mon-
sters do not provoke attacks of opportunity when they attempt to 
grapple, nor do characters with the Improved Grapple feat.) If the 
attack of opportunity misses or fails to deal damage, proceed to Step 
2. 
Step 2: Grab. You make a melee touch attack to grab the target. If 
you fail to hit the target, the grapple attempt fails. If you succeed, 
proceed to Step 3. 
Step 3: Hold.  Make an opposed grapple check as a free action. If 
you succeed, you and your target are now grappling, and you deal 
damage to the target as if with an unarmed strike. 
If you lose, you fail to start the grapple. You automatically lose an 
attempt to hold if the target is two or more size categories larger 
than you are. 
In case of a tie, the combatant with the higher grapple check 
modifier wins. If this is a tie, roll again to break the tie. 
Step 4: Maintain Grapple.  To maintain the grapple for later 
rounds, you must move into the target’s space. (This movement is 
free and doesn’t count as part of your movement in the round.) 
Moving, as normal, provokes attacks of opportunity from 
threatening opponents, but not from your target. 
If you can’t move into your target’s space, you can’t maintain the 
grapple and must immediately let go of the target. To grapple again, 
you must begin at Step 1. 
 
Grappling Consequences 
While you’re grappling, your ability to attack others and defend 
yourself is limited. 
No Threatened Squares:  You don’t threaten any squares while 
grappling. 
No Dexterity Bonus:  You lose your Dexterity bonus to AC (if 
you have one) against opponents you aren’t grappling. (You can still 
use it against opponents you are grappling.) 
No Movement:  You can’t move normally while grappling. You 
may, however, make an opposed grapple check (see below) to move 
while grappling. 
 
If You’re Grappling 
When you are grappling (regardless of who started the grapple), you 
can perform any of the following actions. Some of these actions take 
the place of an attack (rather than being a standard action or a move 
action). If your base attack bonus allows you multiple attacks, you 
can attempt one of these actions in place of each of your attacks, but 
at successively lower base attack bonuses. 
Activate a Magic Item: You can activate a magic item, as long as 
the item doesn’t require a spell completion trigger. You don’t need 
to make a grapple check to activate the item. 
Attack Your Opponent:  You can make an attack with an 
unarmed strike, natural weapon, or light weapon against another 
character you are grappling. You take a –4 penalty on such attacks. 
You can’t attack with two weapons while grappling, even if both are 
light weapons. 
Cast a Spell:  You can attempt to cast a spell while grappling or 
even while pinned (see below), provided its casting time is no more 
than 1 standard action, it has no somatic component, and you have 
in hand any material components or focuses you might need. Any 
spell that requires precise and careful action, such as drawing a 
circle with powdered silver for protection from evil , is impossible to 
cast while grappling or being pinned. If the spell is one that you can 
cast while grappling, you must make a Concentration check (DC 20 
+ spell level) or lose the spell. You don’t have to make a successful 
grapple check to cast the spell. 
Damage Your Opponent: While grappling, you can deal damage 
to your opponent equivalent to an unarmed strike. Make an opposed 
grapple check in place of an attack. If you win, you deal nonlethal 
damage as normal for your unarmed strike (1d3 points for Medium 
attackers or 1d2 points for Small attackers, plus Strength modifiers). 
If you want to deal lethal damage, you take a –4 penalty on your 
grapple check. 
Exception: Monks deal more damage on an unarmed strike than 
other characters, and the damage is lethal. However, they can 
choose to deal their damage as nonlethal damage when grappling 
without taking the usual –4 penalty for changing lethal damage to 
nonlethal damage (see Dealing Nonlethal Damage, page 146). 
Draw a Light Weapon:  You can draw a light weapon as a move 
action with a successful grapple check. 
Escape from Grapple:  You can escape a grapple by winning an 
opposed grapple check in place of making an attack. You can make 
an Escape Artist check in place of your grapple check if you so 
desire, but this requires a standard action. If more than one oppo-
nent is grappling you, your grapple check result has to beat all their 
individual check results to escape. (Opponents don’t have to try to 
hold you if they don’t want to.) If you escape, you finish the action 
by moving into any space adjacent to your opponent(s). 
Move: You can move half your speed (bringing all others engaged 
in the grapple with you) by winning an opposed grapple check. This 
requires a standard action, and you must beat all the other individual 
check results to move the grapple. 
Note: You get a +4 bonus on your grapple check to move a pinned 
opponent, but only if no one else is involved in the grapple. 
Retrieve a Spell Component:  You can produce a spell compo-
nent from your pouch while grappling by using a full-round action. 
Doing so does not require a successful grapple check. 
Pin Your Opponent:  You can hold your opponent immobile for 
1 round by winning an opposed grapple check (made in place of an 
attack). Once you have an opponent pinned, you have a few options 
available to you (see below). 
Break Another’s Pin: If you are grappling an opponent who has 
another character pinned, you can make an opposed grapple check 
in place of an attack. If you win, you break the hold that the 
opponent has over the other character. The character is still 
grappling, but is no longer pinned. 
Use Opponent’s Weapon:  If your opponent is holding a light 
weapon, you can use it to attack him. Make an opposed grapple 
check (in place of an attack). If you win, make an attack roll with the 
weapon with a –4 penalty (doing this doesn’t require another 
action). You don’t gain possession of the weapon by performing this 
action. 
 
If You’re Pinning an Opponent 
Once you’ve pinned your opponent, he’s at your mercy. However, 
you don’t have quite the freedom of action that you did while grap-
pling. You can attempt to damage your opponent with an opposed 
grapple check, you can attempt to use your opponent’s weapon 
against him, or you can attempt to move the grapple (all described 
above). At your option, you can prevent a pinned opponent from 
speaking. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 