 
 157
You can use a disarm action to remove or grab away a well secured 
object worn by a pinned opponent, but he gets a +4 bonus on his roll 
to resist your attempt (see Disarm, page 155). 
You may voluntarily release a pinned character as a free action; if 
you do so, you are no longer considered to be grappling that char-
acter (and vice versa). 
You can’t draw or use a weapon (against the pinned character or 
any other character), escape another’s grapple, retrieve a spell 
component, pin another character, or break another’s pin while you 
are pinning an opponent. 
 
If You’re Pinned by an Opponent 
When an opponent has pinned you, you are held immobile (but not 
helpless) for 1 round. While you’re pinned, you take a –4 penalty to 
your AC against opponents other than the one pinning you. At your 
opponent’s option, you may also be unable to speak. On your turn, 
you can try to escape the pin by making an opposed grapple check 
in place of an attack. You can make an Escape Artist check in place 
of your grapple check if you want, but this requires a standard 
action. If you win, you escape the pin, but you’re still grappling. 
 
Joining a Grapple 
If your target is already grappling someone else, you can use an 
attack to start a grapple, as above, except that the target doesn’t get 
an attack of opportunity against you, and your grab automatically 
succeeds. You still have to make a successful opposed grapple check 
to become part of the grapple. 
If there are multiple opponents involved in the grapple, you pick 
one to make the opposed grapple check against. 
 
Multiple Grapplers 
Several combatants can be in a single grapple. Up to four combat-
ants can grapple a single opponent in a given round. Creatures that 
are one or more size categories smaller than you count for half, 
creatures that are one size category larger than you count double, 
and creatures two or more size categories larger count quadruple. 
When you are grappling with multiple opponents, you choose 
one opponent to make an opposed check against. The exception is 
an attempt to escape from the grapple; to successfully escape, your 
grapple check must beat the check results of each opponent. 
 
MOUNTED COMBAT 
Riding a mount into battle gives you several advantages (see the 
Ride skill, page 80, and the Mounted Combat feat, page 98). 
Horses in Combat:  Warhorses and warponies can serve readily 
as combat steeds. Light horses, ponies, and heavy horses, however, 
are frightened by combat. If you don’t dismount, you must make a 
DC 20 Ride check each round as a move action to control such a 
horse. If you succeed, you can perform a standard action after the 
move action. If you fail, the move action becomes a full round action 
and you can’t do anything else until your next turn. 
Your mount acts on your initiative count as you direct it. You 
move at its speed, but the mount uses its action to move. 
A horse (not a pony) is a Large creature (see Big and Little Crea-
tures in Combat, page 149), and thus takes up a space 10 feet (2 
squares) across. For simplicity, assume that you share your mount’s 
space during combat. 
Combat while Mounted:  With a DC 5 Ride check, you can 
guide your mount with your knees so as to use both hands to attack 
or defend yourself. This is a free action. 
When you attack a creature smaller than your mount that is on 
foot, you get the +1 bonus on melee attacks for being on higher 
ground. If your mount moves more than 5 feet, you can only make a 
single melee attack. Essentially, you have to wait until the mount 
gets to your enemy before attacking, so you can’t make a full attack. 
Even at your mount’s full speed, you don’t take any penalty on melee 
attacks while mounted. 
If your mount charges, you also take the AC penalty associated 
with a charge. If you make an attack at the end of the charge, you 
receive the bonus gained from the charge. When charging on horse-
back, you deal double damage with a lance (see Charge, page 154). 
You can use ranged weapons while your mount is taking a double 
move, but at a –4 penalty on the attack roll. You can use ranged 
weapons while your mount is running (quadruple speed), at a –8 
penalty. In either case, you make the attack roll when your mount 
has completed half its movement. You can make a full attack with a 
ranged weapon while your mount is moving. Likewise, you can take 
move actions normally, so that, for instance, you can load and fire a 
light crossbow in a round while your mount is moving. 
Casting Spells while Mounted:  You can cast a spell normally if 
your mount moves up to a normal move (its speed) either before or 
after you cast. If you have your mount move both before and after 
you cast a spell, then you’re casting the spell while the mount is 
moving, and you have to make a Concentration check due to the 
vigorous motion (DC 10 + spell level) or lose the spell. If the mount 
is running (quadruple speed), you can cast a spell when your mount 
has moved up to twice its speed, but your Concentration check is 
more difficult due to the violent motion (DC 15 + spell level). 
If Your Mount Falls in Battle:  If your mount falls, you have to 
succeed on a DC 15 Ride check to make a soft fall and take no 
damage. If the check fails, you take 1d6 points of damage. 
If You Are Dropped: If you are knocked unconscious, you have a 
50% chance to stay in the saddle (or 75% if you’re in a military 
saddle). Otherwise you fall and take 1d6 points of damage. Without 
you to guide it, your mount avoids combat. 
 
OVERRUN 
You can attempt an overrun as a standard action taken during your 
move, or as part of a charge. (In general, you cannot take a standard 
action during a move; this is an exception.) With an overrun, you 
attempt to plow past or over your opponent (and move through his 
square) as you move. You can only overrun an opponent who is one 
size category larger than you, the same size, or smaller. You can 
make only one overrun attempt per round. 
If you’re attempting to overrun an opponent, follow these steps. 
Step 1: Attack of Opportunity.  Since you begin the overrun by 
moving into the defender’s space, you provoke an attack of 
opportunity from the defender. 
Step 2: Opponent Avoids?  The defender has the option to 
simply avoid you. If he avoids you, he doesn’t suffer any ill effect. If 
you were attempting the overrun as part of a charge, you may keep 
moving. (You can always move through a square occupied by 
someone who lets you by.) In either case, the overrun attempt 
doesn’t count against your actions this round (except for any 
movement required to enter the opponent’s square). If your oppo-
nent doesn’t avoid you, move to Step 3. 
Step 3: Opponent Blocks?  If your opponent blocks you, make a 
Strength check opposed by the defender’s Dexterity or Strength 
check (whichever ability score has the higher modifier). A 
combatant gets a +4 bonus on the check for every size category he is 
larger than Medium or a –4 penalty for every size category he is 
smaller than Medium. You gain a +2 bonus on your Strength check 
if you made the overrun as part of a charge. The defender gets a +4 
bonus on his check if he has more than two legs or is otherwise 
more stable than a normal humanoid (such as a dwarf). If you win, 
you knock the defender prone. If you lose, the defender may 
immediately react and make a Strength check opposed by your 
Dexterity or Strength check (including the size modifiers noted 
above, but no other modifiers) to try to knock you prone. 
Step 4: Consequences.  If you succeed in knocking your oppo-
nent prone, you can continue your movement as normal. If you fail 
and are knocked prone in turn, you have to move 5 feet back the 
way you came and fall prone, ending your movement there. If you 
fail but are not knocked prone, you have to move 5 feet back the way 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 