 
 158 
you came, ending your movement there. If that square is occupied, 
you fall prone in that square. 
Improved Overrun:  If you have the Improved Overrun feat, 
your target may not choose to avoid you. 
Mounted Overrun (Trample):  If you attempt an overrun while 
mounted, your mount makes the Strength check to determine the 
success or failure of the overrun attack (and applies its size modifier, 
rather than yours). If you have the Trample feat and attempt an 
overrun while mounted, your target may not choose to avoid you, 
and if you knock your opponent prone with the overrun, your 
mount may make one hoof attack against your opponent. 
 
SUNDER 
You can use a melee attack with a slashing or bludgeoning weapon 
to strike a weapon or shield that your opponent is holding. If you’re 
attempting to sunder a weapon or shield, follow the steps outlined 
here. (Attacking held objects other than weapons or shields is 
covered below.) 
 
Table 8–8: Common Armor, Weapon, and Shield 
Hardness and Hit Points 
Weapon or Shield Example Hardness HP 1 
Light blade  Short sword 10 2 
One-handed blade Longsword 10 5 
Two-handed blade Greatsword 10 10 
Light metal-hafted weapon Light mace 10 10 
One-handed metal-hafted weapon Heavy mace 10 20 
Light hafted weapon  Handaxe 5 2 
One-handed hafted weapon Battleaxe 5 5 
Two-handed hafted weapon Greataxe 5 10 
Projectile weapon Crossbow 5 5 
Armor — special
2 armor 
   bonus × 5 
Buckler — 10 5 
Light wooden shield — 5 7 
Heavy wooden shield — 5 15 
Light steel shield — 10 10 
Heavy steel shield — 10 20 
Tower shield — 5 20 
1 The hp value given is for Medium armor, weapons, and shields. 
Divide by 2 for each size category of the item smaller than Medium, 
or multiply it by 2 for each size category larger than Medium. 
2 Varies by material; see Table 9–9, page 166.
 
 
Step 1: Attack of Opportunity.  You provoke an attack of 
opportunity from the target whose weapon or shield you are trying 
to sunder. (If you have the Improved Sunder feat, you don’t incur an 
attack of opportunity for making the attempt.) 
Step 2: Opposed Rolls.  You and the defender make opposed 
attack rolls with your respective weapons. The wielder of a two-
handed weapon on a sunder attempt gets a +4 bonus on this roll, and 
the wielder of a light weapon takes a –4 penalty. If the combatants 
are of different sizes, the larger combatant gets a bonus on the attack 
roll of +4 per difference in size category. 
Step 3: Consequences. If you beat the defender, you have landed 
a good blow. Roll damage and deal it to the weapon or shield. See 
Table 8–8: Common Armor, Weapon, and Shield Hardness and Hit 
Points to determine how much damage you must deal to destroy the 
weapon or shield. 
If you fail the sunder attempt, you don’t deal any damage. 
Sundering a Carried or Worn Object:  You don’t use an opposed 
attack roll to damage a carried or worn object. Instead, just make an 
attack roll against the object’s AC. A carried or worn object’s AC is 
equal to 10 + its size modifier + the Dexterity modifier of the carry-
ing or wearing character. Attacking a carried or worn object provo-
kes an attack of opportunity just as attacking a held object does. To 
attempt to snatch away an item worn by a defender (such as a cloak 
or a pair of goggles) rather than damage it, see Disarm, page 155. You 
can’t sunder armor worn by another character. 
 
THROW SPLASH WEAPON 
A splash weapon is a ranged weapon that breaks on impact, splash-
ing or scattering its contents over its target and nearby creatures or 
objects. Most splash weapons consist of liquids, such as acid or holy 
water, in breakable vials such as glass flasks. (See Special Substances 
and Items, page 128, for particulars about several different splash 
weapons.) 
To attack with a splash weapon, make a ranged touch attack 
against the target. Thrown weapons require no weapon proficiency, 
so you don’t take the –4 nonproficiency penalty. A hit deals direct 
hit damage to the target, and splash damage to all creatures within 5 
feet of the target. 
You can instead target a specific grid intersection. Treat this as a 
ranged attack against AC 5. However, if you target a grid intersec-
tion, creatures in all adjacent squares are dealt the splash damage, 
and the direct hit damage is not dealt to any creature. (You can’t 
target a grid intersection occupied by a creature, such as a Large or 
larger creature; in this case, you’re aiming at the creature.) 
If you miss the target (whether aiming at a creature or a grid 
intersection), roll 1d8. This determines the misdirection of the 
throw, with 1 being straight back at you and 2 through 8 counting 
clockwise around the grid intersection or target creature. Then, 
count a number of squares in the indicated direction equal to the 
range increment of the throw. So, if you miss on a throw out to two 
range increments and roll a 1 to determine the misdirection of the 
throw, the splash weapon lands on the intersection that is 2 squares 
away from the target in the direction toward you. See the 
accompanying diagram. 
After you determine where the weapon landed, it deals splash 
damage to all creatures in adjacent squares. 
 
TRIP 
You can try to trip an opponent as an unarmed melee attack. You can 
only trip an opponent who is one size category larger than you, the 
same size, or smaller. 
Making a Trip Attack:  Make an unarmed melee touch attack 
against your target. This provokes an attack of opportunity from 
your target as normal for unarmed attacks. 
If your attack succeeds, make a Strength check opposed by the 
defender’s Dexterity or Strength check (whichever ability score has 
the higher modifier). A combatant gets a +4 bonus for every size 
category he is larger than Medium or a –4 penalty for every size 
category he is smaller than Medium. The defender gets a +4 bonus 
on his check if he has more than two legs or is otherwise more stable 
than a normal humanoid (such as a dwarf). If you win, you trip the 
defender. If you lose, the defender may immediately react and make 
a Strength check opposed by your Dexterity or Strength check to try 
to trip you. 
Avoiding Attacks of Opportunity: If you have the Improved Trip feat, 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 