 
 160 
Neutral Clerics and Undead 
A cleric of neutral alignment can either turn undead but not rebuke 
them, or rebuke undead but not turn them. See Turn or Rebuke 
Undead, page 33, for more information. 
Even if a cleric is neutral, channeling positive energy is a good act 
and channeling negative energy is evil. 
 
Paladins and Undead 
Beginning at 4th level, paladins can turn undead as if they were 
clerics of three levels lower than they actually are. 
 
Turning Other Creatures 
Some clerics have the ability to turn creatures other than undead. 
For example, a cleric with the Fire domain can turn or destroy water 
creatures (as if he were a good cleric turning undead) and rebuke or 
command fire creatures (as if he were an evil cleric rebuking 
undead). The turning check result is determined as normal. 
 
Other Uses for Positive or Negative Energy 
Positive or negative energy may have uses other than affecting 
undead. For example, a holy site might be guarded by a magic door 
that opens for any good cleric who can make a turning check high 
enough to affect a 3-HD undead and that shatters for an evil cleric 
who can make a similar check. 
 
TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING 
If you wield a second weapon in your off hand, you can get one extra 
attack per round with that weapon. Fighting in this way is very hard, 
however, and you suffer a –6 penalty with your regular attack or 
attacks with your primary hand and a –10 penalty to the attack with 
your off hand. You can reduce these penalties in two ways: 
/rhombus4 If your off-hand weapon is light, the penalties are reduced by 2 
each. (An unarmed strike is always considered light.) 
/rhombus4 The Two-Weapon Fighting feat lessens the primary hand penalty 
by 2, and the off-hand penalty by 6. 
Table 8–10: Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties summarizes the 
interaction of all these factors. 
 
Table 8–10: Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties 
Circumstances Primary Hand Off Hand 
Normal penalties –6 –10 
Off-hand weapon is light –4 –8 
Two-Weapon Fighting feat –4 –4 
Off-hand weapon is light and –2 –2 
Two-Weapon Fighting feat 
 
Double Weapons:  You can use a double weapon to make an 
extra attack with the off-hand end of the weapon as if you were 
fighting with two weapons. The penalties apply as if the off-hand 
end of the weapon were a light weapon. 
Thrown Weapons:  The same rules apply when you throw a 
weapon from each hand. Treat a dart or shuriken as a light weapon 
when used in this manner, and treat a bolas, javelin, net, or sling as a 
one-handed weapon. 
 
SPECIAL INITIATIVE ACTIONS 
Here are ways to change when you act during combat by altering 
your place in the initiative order. 
 
DELAY 
By choosing to delay, you take no action and then act normally on 
whatever initiative count you decide to act. When you delay, you 
voluntarily reduce your own initiative result for the rest of the 
combat. When your new, lower initiative count comes up later in 
the same round, you can act normally. You can specify this new 
initiative result or just wait until some time later in the round and 
act then, thus fixing your new initiative count at that point. 
Delaying is useful if you need to see what your friends or oppo-
nents are going to do before deciding what to do yourself. The price 
you pay is lost initiative. You never get back the time you spend 
waiting to see what’s going to happen. You can’t, however, interrupt 
anyone else’s action (as you can with a readied action). 
Initiative Consequences of Delaying:  Your initiative result 
becomes the count on which you took the delayed action. If you 
come to your next action and have not yet performed an action, you 
don’t get to take a delayed action (though you can delay again). If 
you take a delayed action in the next round, before your regular turn 
comes up, your initiative count rises to that new point in the order 
of battle, and you do not get your regular action that round. 
 
READY 
The ready action lets you prepare to take an action later, after your 
turn is over but before your next one has begun. Readying is a 
standard action. It does not provoke an attack of opportunity 
(though the action that you ready might do so). 
Readying an Action:  You can ready a standard action, a move 
action, or a free action. To do so, specify the action you will take and 
the conditions under which you will take it. For example, you might 
specify that you will shoot an arrow at anyone coming through a 
nearby doorway. Then, any time before your next action, you may 
take the readied action in response to that condition. The action 
occurs just before the action that triggers it. If the triggered action is 
part of another character’s activities, you interrupt the other 
character. Assuming he is still capable of doing so, he continues his 
actions once you complete your readied action. 
Your initiative result changes. For the rest of the encounter, your 
initiative result is the count on which you took the readied action, 
and you act immediately ahead of the character whose action 
triggered your readied action. 
You can take a 5-foot step as part of your readied action, but only 
if you don’t otherwise move any distance during the round. For 
instance, if you move up to an open door and then ready an action to 
swing your sword at whatever comes near, you can’t take a 5-foot 
step along with the readied action (since you’ve already moved in 
this round). 
Initiative Consequences of Readying:  Your initiative result 
becomes the count on which you took the readied action. If you 
come to your next action and have not yet performed your readied 
action, you don’t get to take the readied action (though you can 
ready the same action again). If you take your readied action in the 
next round, before your regular turn comes up, your initiative count 
rises to that new point in the order of battle, and you do not get your 
regular action that round. 
Distracting Spellcasters: You can ready an attack against a spell-
caster with the trigger “if she starts casting a spell.” If you damage 
the spellcaster, she may lose the spell she was trying to cast (as deter-
mined by her Concentration check result). 
Readying to Counterspell:  You may ready a counterspell 
against a spellcaster (often with the trigger “if she starts casting a 
spell”). In this case, when the spellcaster starts a spell, you get a 
chance to identify it with a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell level). If 
you do, and if you can cast that same spell (are able to cast it and 
have it prepared, if you prepare spells), you can cast the spell as a 
counterspell and automatically ruin the other spellcaster’s spell. 
Counterspelling works even if one spell is divine and the other 
arcane. 
A spellcaster can use dispel magic  (page 223) to counterspell 
another spellcaster, but it doesn’t always work. 
Readying a Weapon against a Charge:  You can ready certain 
piercing weapons, setting them to receive charges (see Table 7–5: 
Weapons, page 116). A readied weapon of this type deals double 
damage if you score a hit with it against a charging character. 
CHAPTER 8: 
COMBAT 