 
 165
Table 9–7: Light Sources and Illumination 
Object Bright Shadowy Duration 
Candle n/a 1 5 ft. 1 hr. 
Everburning torch 20 ft. 40 ft. Permanent 
Lamp, common 15 ft. 30 ft. 6 hr./pint 
Lantern, bullseye2 60-ft. cone 120-ft. cone 6 hr./pint 
Lantern, hooded 30 ft. 60 ft. 6 hr./pint 
Sunrod 30 ft. 60 ft. 6 hr. 
Torch 20 ft. 40 ft. 1 hr. 
 
Spell Bright Shadowy Duration 
Continual flame 20 ft. 40 ft. Permanent 
Dancing lights (torches) 20 ft. (each) 40 ft. (each) 1 min. 
Daylight 60 ft. 120 ft. 30 min. 
Light 20 ft. 40 ft. 10 min. 
1 A candle does not provide bright illumination, only shadowy 
illumination. 
2 A bullseye lantern illuminates a cone, not a radius.  
 
loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, takes 
a –2 penalty to AC, moves at half 
speed, and takes a –4 penalty on 
Search checks and most Strength and 
Dexterity-based skill checks. 
Characters with low-light vision 
(elves, gnomes, and half-elves) can see 
objects twice as far away as the given 
radius. Double the effective radius of 
bright light and of shadowy illumina-
tion for such characters. For 
example, a torch provides bright 
illumination to a radius of 40 feet 
(rather than 20 feet) for a character 
with low-light vision, and it 
provides shadowy illumination to a 
radius of 80 feet (rather than 40 
feet). 
Characters with darkvision 
(dwarves and half-orcs) can see lit 
areas normally as well as dark areas 
within 60 feet. A creature can’t hide 
within 60 feet of a character with 
darkvision unless it is invisible or has 
cover. 
 
BREAKING AND 
ENTERING 
There inevitably comes a time when a 
character must break something, 
whether it’s a door, a chain, or a chest 
full of treasure. 
When attempting to break an 
object, you have two choices: smash it 
with a weapon or break it with sheer 
strength. 
 
Smashing an Object 
Smashing a weapon or shield with a slashing or bludgeoning 
weapon is accomplished by the sunder special attack (see Sunder, 
page 158). Smashing an object is a lot like sundering a weapon or 
shield, except that your attack roll is opposed by the object’s AC. 
Generally, you can smash an object only with a bludgeoning or 
slashing weapon. 
Armor Class:  Objects are easier to hit than creatures because 
they usually don’t move, but many are tough enough to shrug off 
some damage from each blow. An object’s Armor Class is equal to 10 
+ its size modifier + its Dexterity modifier. An inanimate object has 
not only a Dexterity of 0 (–5 penalty to AC), but also an additional –2 
penalty to its AC. Furthermore, if you take a full-round action to line 
up a shot, you get an automatic hit with a melee weapon and a +5 
bonus on attack rolls with a ranged weapon. 
Hardness: Each object has hardness—a number that represents 
how well it resists damage. Whenever an object takes damage, 
subtract its hardness from the damage. Only damage in excess of its 
hardness is deducted from the object’s hit points (see Table 9–8: 
Common Armor, Weapon, and Shield Hardness and Hit Points; 
Table 9–9: Substance Hardness and Hit Points; and Table 9–11: 
Object Hardness and Hit Points). 
Hit Points: An object’s hit point total depends on what it is made 
of and how big it is (see Table 9–8, Table 9–9, and Table 9–11). 
When an object’s hit points reach 0, it’s ruined. 
Very large objects have separate hit point totals for 
different sections. For example, you can attack and ruin a 
wagon wheel without destroying the whole wagon. 
Energy Attacks:  Acid and sonic attacks deal 
damage to most objects just as they do to 
creatures; roll damage and apply it 
normally after a successful hit. Elec-
tricity and fire attacks deal half 
damage to most objects; divide 
the damage dealt by 2 before 
applying the hardness. Cold 
attacks deal one-quarter 
damage to most objects; 
divide the damage dealt 
by 4 before applying the 
hardness. 
Ranged Weapon Dam-
age: Objects take half 
damage from ranged weap-
ons (unless the weapon is a 
siege engine or something 
similar). Divide the damage dealt 
by 2 before applying the object’s 
hardness. 
Ineffective Weapons:  The DM may 
determine that certain weapons just 
can’t effectively deal damage to certain 
objects. For example, you may have a 
hard time chopping down a door by 
shooting arrows at it or cutting a robe 
with a club. 
Immunities: Objects are immune to 
nonlethal damage and to critical hits. Even 
animated objects, which are otherwise considered 
creatures, have these immunities because they 
are constructs. 
Magic Armor, Shields, and Weapons:  Each +1 of 
enhancement bonus adds 2 to the hardness of 
armor, a weapon, or a shield and +10 to the item’s hit 
points. For example, a +1 longsword  has hardness 12 and 
15 hp, while a +3 heavy steel shield has hardness 16 and 50 hp. 
Vulnerability to Certain Attacks:  The DM may rule that certain 
attacks are especially successful against some objects. For example, 
it’s easy to light a curtain on fire, chop down a tree with an ax, or rip 
up a scroll. In such cases, attacks deal double their normal damage 
and may (at the DM’s discretion) ignore the object’s hardness. 
Damaged Objects: A damaged object remains fully functional until 
the item’s hit points are reduced to 0, at which point it is destroyed. 
For instance, the wielder of a damaged weapon takes no penalty due 
to the weapon’s damage, and damaged armor and shields still 
Illus. by S. Wood 
CHAPTER 9: 
ADVENTURING 