 
 167
Magic items always get saving throws. A magic item’s Fortitude, 
Reflex, and Will save bonuses are equal to 2 + one-half its caster 
level. An attended magic item either makes saving throws as its 
owner or uses its own saving throw bonus, whichever is better. 
(Caster levels of magic items are covered in the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide.) 
Example of Breaking an Object: Lidda, a rogue, can’t pick the lock on 
the big treasure chest that Mialee, the elf, just found behind a secret 
door, so Krusk, the barbarian, volunteers to open it in a more 
straightforward manner. The chest, made of wood, has hardness 5, 
so the chest takes only 5 points of damage from his attack. The wood 
is 1 inch thick, so it had 10 hit points. Now it has 5. Krusk has 
gouged the wood but not yet broken the chest open. On his second 
attack, he deals 4 points of damage. That’s lower than the chest’s 
hardness, so the chest takes no damage at all—a glancing blow. His 
third blow, however, deals 12 points of damage (which means the 
chest takes 7), and the chest breaks open. 
Animated Objects:  Animated objects (see the Monster Manual ) 
count as creatures for purposes of determining their Armor Class 
(do not treat them as inanimate objects). 
 
Breaking Items 
When a character tries to break something with sudden force rather 
than by dealing damage, use a Strength check (rather than an attack 
roll and damage roll, as with the sunder special attack) to see 
whether he or she succeeds. The DC depends more on the 
construction of the item than on the material. For instance, an iron 
door with a weak lock can be forced open much more easily than it 
can be hacked down. 
If an item has lost half or more of its hit points, the DC to break it 
drops by 2. 
Larger and smaller creatures get size bonuses and size penalties 
on Strength checks to break open doors as follows: Fine –16, 
Diminutive –12, Tiny –8, Small –4, Large +4, Huge +8, Gargantuan 
+12, Colossal +16. 
A crowbar (page 126) or portable ram (page 127) improves a 
character’s chance of breaking open a door. 
 
MARCHING ORDER 
The characters in a party need to decide what their matching order 
is. Marching order is the relative position of the characters to each 
other while they are moving (who is in front of or next to whom). 
Arrange your miniature figures on the battle grid to represent the 
PC’s relative locations. You can change the marching order as the 
party enters different areas, as characters get wounded, or at other 
times for any reason. 
In a marching order, the sturdiest characters, such as barbarians, 
fighters, and paladins, usually go in front. Wizards, sorcerers, and 
bards often find a place in the middle or back of the party, where 
they are protected from direct attack. Clerics and druids are good 
choices for rear guard. They’re tough enough to withstand a rear 
attack, and they’re important enough as healers that it’s risky to put 
them in the front line. Rogues, rangers, and monks might serve as 
stealthy scouts, though they have to be careful if they’re away from 
the safety of the party. 
If the characters are not far apart, they can protect each other, but 
they’re more vulnerable to many spells when they cluster together, 
so sometimes it pays to spread out a little. 
 
TREASURE 
When characters undertake adventures, they usually end up with 
some amount of silver, gold, gems, or other treasure. These rewards 
might be ancient treasures that they have unearthed, the hoards of 
the villains they have conquered, or pay from a patron who hired 
them to go on the adventure. 
Splitting Treasure:  Split treasure evenly among the characters 
who participated. Some characters may be of higher level than 
others, or some might happen to have done more on a particular 
adventure than others did, but the simplest, fastest, and best policy 
is to split treasure up evenly. 
Illus. by J. Foster 
Lidda savors the rewards of opening the treasure chest.
CHAPTER 9: 
ADVENTURING 