 
 171
fireball (that is, a fireball that has been enhanced by the metamagic 
feat Maximize Spell) and vice versa. 
Specific Exceptions:  Some spells specifically counter each 
other, especially when they have diametrically opposed effects. For 
example, you can counter a haste spell with a slow spell as well as 
with another haste spell, or you can counter reduce person with enlarge 
person. 
Dispel Magic  as a Counterspell:  You can use dispel magic  to 
counterspell another spellcaster, and you don’t need to identify the 
spell he or she is casting. However, dispel magic doesn’t always work 
as a counterspell (see the spell description, page 223). 
 
CASTER LEVEL 
A spell’s power often depends on its caster level, which for most 
spellcasting characters is equal to your class level in the class you’re 
using to cast the spell. For example, a fireball deals 1d6 points of 
damage per caster level (to a maximum of 10d6), so a 10th-level 
wizard can cast a more powerful fireball than a 5th-level wizard can. 
You can cast a spell at a lower caster level than normal, but the 
caster level you choose must be high enough for you to cast the spell 
in question, and all level-dependent features must be based on the 
same caster level. For example, at 10th level, Mialee can cast a fireball 
to a range of 800 feet for 10d6 points of damage. If she wishes, she 
can cast a fireball that deals less damage by casting the spell at a lower 
caster level, but she must reduce the range according to the selected 
caster level, and she can’t cast fireball with a caster level lower than 
5th (the minimum level required for a wizard to cast fireball). 
In the event that a class feature, domain granted power, or other 
special ability provides an adjustment to your caster level, that 
adjustment applies not only to effects based on caster level (such as 
range, duration, and damage dealt) but also to your caster level 
check to overcome your target’s spell resistance (see Spell Resis-
tance, page 177) and to the caster level used in dispel checks (both 
the dispel check and the DC of the check). For instance, a 7th-level 
cleric with the Good domain casts spells with the good descriptor as 
if he were 8th level. This means that his holy smite deals 4d8 points of 
damage, he tolls 1d20+8 to overcome spell resistance with his good 
spells, and his protection from evil  spell resists being dispelled as if it 
had been cast by an 8th-level spellcaster. 
 
SPELL FAILURE 
If you ever try to cast a spell in conditions where the characteristics 
of the spell (range, area, or the like) cannot be made to conform, the 
casting fails and the spell is wasted. For example, if you cast charm 
person on a dog, the spell fails because a dog is the wrong sort of 
target for the spell. 
Spells also fail if your concentration is broken and might fail if 
you’re wearing armor while casting a spell with somatic components 
(see Table 7–6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 
 
THE SPELL’S RESULT 
Once you know which creatures (or objects or areas) are affected, 
and whether those creatures have made successful saving throws (if 
any were allowed), you can apply whatever results a spell entails. 
Many spells affect particular sorts of creatures. Repel vermin keeps 
vermin away, and calm animals can calm down animals and magical 
beasts. These terms, and terms like them, refer to specific creature 
types defined in the Monster Manual. 
 
SPECIAL SPELL EFFECTS 
Many special spell effects are handled according to the school of the 
spells in question. For example, illusory figments all have certain 
effects in common (see Illusion, page 173). Certain other special 
spell features are found across spell schools. 
Attacks: Some spell descriptions refer to attacking. For instance, 
invisibility is dispelled if you attack anyone or anything while under 
its effects. All offensive combat actions, even those that don’t 
damage opponents (such as disarm and bull rush) are considered 
attacks. Attempts to turn or rebuke undead count as attacks. All 
spells that opponents resist with saving throws, that deal damage, or 
that otherwise harm or hamper subjects are attacks. Summon monster 
I and similar spells are not attacks because the spells themselves 
don’t harm anyone. 
Bonus Types:  Many spells give their subjects bonuses to ability 
scores, Armor Class, attacks, and other attributes. Usually, a bonus 
has a type that indicates how the spell grants the bonus. For 
example, mage armor  grants an armor bonus to AC, indicating that 
the spell creates a tangible barrier around you. Shield of faith , on the 
other hand, grants a deflection bonus to AC, which makes attacks 
veer off. (Bonus types are covered in detail in the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide.) The important aspect of bonus types is that two bonuses of 
the same type don’t generally stack. With the exception of dodge 
bonuses, most circumstance bonuses, and racial bonuses, only the 
better bonus works (see Combining Magical Effects, below). The 
same principle applies to penalties—a character taking two or more 
penalties of the same type applies only the worst one. 
Bringing Back the Dead:  Several spells have the power to 
restore slain characters to life. 
When a living creature dies, its soul departs its body, leaves the 
Material Plane, travels through the Astral Plane, and goes to abide 
on the plane where the creature’s deity resides. If the creature did 
not worship a deity, its soul departs to the plane corresponding to its 
alignment. Bringing someone back from the dead means retrieving 
his or her soul and returning it to his or her body. 
Level Loss:  The passage from life to death and back again is a 
wrenching journey for a being’s soul. Consequently, any creature 
brought back to life usually loses one level of experience. The 
character’s new XP total is midway between the minimum needed 
for his or her new (reduced) level and the minimum needed for the 
next one. If the character was 1st level at the time of death, he or she 
loses 2 points of Constitution instead of losing a level. 
This level loss or Constitution loss cannot be repaired by any 
mortal means, even wish or miracle. A revived character can regain a 
lost level by earning XP through further adventuring. A revived 
character who was 1st level at the time of death can regain lost 
points of Constitution by improving his or her Constitution score 
when he or she attains a level that allows an ability score increase. 
Preventing Revivification:  Enemies can take steps to make it more 
difficult for a character to be returned from the dead. Keeping the 
body prevents others from using raise dead or resurrection to restore 
the slain character to life. Casting trap the soul  prevents any sort of 
revivification unless the soul is first released. 
Revivification against One’s Will: A soul cannot be returned to life if 
it does not wish to be. A soul knows the name, alignment, and 
patron deity (if any) of the character attempting to revive it and may 
refuse to return on that basis. For example, if Alhandra the paladin is 
slain and a high priest of Nerull (god of death) grabs her body, 
Alhandra probably does not wish to be raised from the dead by him. 
Any attempts he makes to revive her automatically fail. If the evil 
cleric wants to revive Alhandra to interrogate her, he needs to find 
some way to trick her soul, such as duping a good cleric into raising 
her and then capturing her once she’s alive again. 
 
COMBINING MAGICAL EFFECTS 
Spells or magical effects usually work as described, no matter how 
many other spells or magical effects happen to be operating in the 
same area or on the same recipient. Except in special cases, a spell 
does not affect the way another spell operates. Whenever a spell has 
a specific effect on other spells, the spell description explains that 
effect. Several other general rules apply when spells or magical 
effects operate in the same place: 
Stacking Effects:  Spells that provide bonuses or penalties on 
attack rolls, damage rolls, saving throws, and other attributes usually 
do not stack with themselves. For example, two bless spells don’t give 
twice the benefit of one bless. Both bless spells, however, continue to 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 