 
 172 
act simultaneously, and if one ends first, the other one continues to 
operate for the remainder of its duration. Likewise, two haste spells 
do not make the creature doubly fast. 
More generally, two bonuses of the same type don’t stack even if 
they come from different spells (or from effects other than spells; 
see Bonus Types, above). For example, the enhancement bonus to 
Strength from a bull’s strength  spell and the enhancement bonus to 
Strength from a divine power  spell don’t stack. You use whichever 
bonus gives you the better Strength score. In the same way, a belt of 
giant Strength  gives you an enhancement bonus to Strength, which 
does not stack with the bonus you get from a bull’s strength spell. 
Different Bonus Names:  The bonuses or penalties from two dif-
ferent spells stack if the modifiers are of different types. For 
example, bless provides a +1 morale bonus on saves against fear 
effects, and protection from evil  provides a +2 resistance bonus on 
saves against spells cast by evil creatures. A character under the 
influence of spells gets a +1 bonus against all fear effects, a +2 bonus 
against spells cast by evil beings, and a +3 bonus against fear spells 
cast by evil creatures. 
A bonus that isn’t named (just a “+2 bonus” rather than a “+2 
resistance bonus”) stacks with any bonus. 
Same Effect More than Once in Different Strengths:  In cases when two 
or more identical spells are operating in the same area or on the 
same target, but at different strengths, only the best one applies. For 
example, if a character takes a –4 penalty to Strength from a ray of 
enfeeblement spell and then receives a second ray of enfeeblement spell 
that applies a –6 penalty, he or she takes only the –6 penalty. Both 
spells are still operating on the character, however. If one ray of 
enfeeblement spell is dispelled or its duration runs out, the other spell 
remains in effect, assuming that its duration has not yet expired. 
Same Effect with Differing Results:  The same spell can sometimes 
produce varying effects if applied to the same recipient more than 
once. For example, a series of polymorph spells might turn a creature 
into a mouse, a lion, and then a snail. In this case, the last spell in the 
series trumps the others. None of the previous spells are actually 
removed or dispelled, but their effects become irrelevant while the 
final spell in the series lasts. 
One Effect Makes Another Irrelevant:  Sometimes, one spell can 
render a later spell irrelevant. For example, if a wizard is using a 
shapechange spell to take the shape of an eagle, a polymorph spell 
could change her into a goldfish. The shapechange spell is not 
negated, however, and since the polymorph spell has no effect on the 
recipient’s special abilities, the wizard could use the shapechange 
effect to take any form the spell allows whenever she desires. If a 
creature using a shapechange effect becomes petrified by a flesh to 
stone spell, however, it turns into a mindless, inert statue, and the 
shapechange effect cannot help it escape. 
Multiple Mental Control Effects:  Sometimes magical effects that 
establish mental control render each other irrelevant. For example, a 
hold person effect renders any other form of mental control irrelevant 
because it robs the subject of the ability to move. Mental controls 
that don’t remove the recipient’s ability to act usually do not 
interfere with each other. For example, a person who has received a 
geas/quest spell can also be subjected to a charm person  spell. The 
charmed person remains committed to fulfilling the quest, however, 
and resists any order that interferes with that goal. In this case, the 
geas/quest spell doesn’t negate charm person , but it does reduce its 
effectiveness, just as nonmagical devotion to a quest would. If a 
creature is under the mental control of two or more creatures, it 
tends to obey each to the best of its ability, and to the extent of the 
control each effect allows. If the controlled creature receives 
conflicting orders simultaneously, the competing controllers must 
make opposed Charisma checks to determine which one the 
creature obeys. 
Spells with Opposite Effects: Spells with opposite effects apply 
normally, with all bonuses, penalties, or changes accruing in the 
order that they apply. Some spells negate or counter each other. This 
is a special effect that is noted in a spell’s description. 
Instantaneous Effects: Two or more spells with instantaneous 
durations work cumulatively when they affect the same target. For 
example, when two fireballs strike a same creature, the target must 
attempt a saving throw against each fireball and takes damage from 
each according to the saving throws’ results. If a creature receives 
two cure light wounds spells in a single round, both work normally. 
 
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS 
The spells available to characters are listed and described in Chapter 
11: Spells. The description of each spell is presented in a standard 
format. Each category of information is explained and defined 
below. 
 
NAME 
The first line of every spell description gives the name by which the 
spell is generally known. 
 
SCHOOL (SUBSCHOOL) 
Beneath the spell name is a line giving the school of magic (and the 
subschool, if appropriate) that the spell belongs to. 
Almost every spell belongs to one of eight schools of magic. A 
school of magic is a group of related spells that work in similar ways. 
A small number of spells ( arcane mark, limited wish, permanency, pres-
tidigitation, and wish) are universal, belonging to no school. 
 
Abjuration 
Abjurations are protective spells. They create physical or magical 
barriers, negate magical or physical abilities, harm trespassers, or 
even banish the subject of the spell to another plane of existence. 
Representative spells include protection from evil , dispel magic , 
antimagic field, and banishment. 
If one abjuration spell is active within 10 feet of another for 24 
hours or more, the magical fields interfere with each other and 
create barely visible energy fluctuations. The DC to find such spells 
with the Search skill drops by 4. 
If an abjuration creates a barrier that keeps certain types of 
creatures at bay, that barrier cannot be used to push away those 
creatures. If you force the barrier against such a creature, you feel a 
discernible pressure against the barrier. If you continue to apply 
pressure, you end the spell. 
 
Conjuration 
Each conjuration spell belongs to one of five subschools. Con-
jurations bring manifestations of objects, creatures, or some form of 
energy to you (the summoning subschool), actually transport 
creatures from another plane of existence to your plane (calling), 
heal (healing), transport creatures or objects over great distances 
(teleportation), or create objects or effects on the spot (creation). 
Creatures you conjure usually, but not always, obey your commands. 
Representative spells include the various summon monster spells, cure 
light wounds, raise dead, teleport, and wall of iron. 
A creature or object brought into being or transported to your 
location by a conjuration spell cannot appear inside another creature 
or object, nor can it appear floating in an empty space. It must arrive 
in an open location on a surface capable of supporting it. The 
creature or object must appear within the spell’s range, but it does 
not have to remain within the range. 
Calling: A calling spell transports a creature from another plane 
to the plane you are on. The spell grants the creature the one-time 
ability to return to its plane of origin, although the spell may limit 
the circumstances under which this is possible. Creatures who are 
called actually die when they are killed; they do not disappear and 
reform, as do those brought by a summoning spell (see below). The 
duration of a calling spell is instantaneous, which means that the 
called creature can’t be dispelled. 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 