 
 175
maximum distance from you that the spell’s effect can occur, as well 
as the maximum distance at which you can designate the spell’s 
point of origin. If any portion of the spell’s area would extend 
beyond this range, that area is wasted. Standard ranges include the 
following. 
Personal: The spell affects only you. 
Touch: You must touch a creature or object to affect it. A touch 
spell that deals damage can score a critical hit just as a weapon can. A 
touch spell threatens a critical hit on a natural roll of 20 and deals 
double damage on a successful critical hit. Some touch spells, such 
as teleport and water walk , allow you to touch multiple targets. You 
can touch as many willing targets as you can reach as part of the 
casting, but all targets of the spell must be touched in the same 
round that you finish casting the spell. 
Close: The spell reaches as far as 25 feet away from you. The 
maximum range increases by 5 feet for every two full caster levels 
(30 feet at 2nd caster level, 35 feet at 4th caster level, and so on). 
Medium: The spell reaches as far as 100 feet + 10 feet per caster 
level. 
Long: The spell reaches as far as 400 feet + 40 feet per caster level. 
Unlimited: The spell reaches anywhere on the same plane of 
existence. 
Range Expressed in Feet:  Some spells have no standard range 
category, just a range expressed in feet. 
 
AIMING A SPELL 
You must make some choice about whom the spell is to affect or 
where the effect is to originate, depending on the type of spell. The 
next entry in a spell description defines the spell’s target (or targets), 
its effect, or its area, as appropriate. 
Target or Targets: Some spells, such as charm person, have a target 
or targets. You cast these spells on creatures or objects, as defined by 
the spell itself. You must be able to see or touch the target, and you 
must specifically choose that target. For example, you can’t fire a 
magic missile  spell (which always hits its target) into a group of 
bandits with the instruction to strike “the leader.” To strike the 
leader, you must be able to identify and see the leader (or guess 
which is the leader and get lucky). However, you do not have to 
select your target until you finish casting the spell. 
If the target of a spell is yourself (the spell description has a line 
that reads Target: You), you do not receive a saving throw, and spell 
resistance does not apply. The Saving Throw and Spell Resistance 
lines are omitted from such spells. 
Some spells restrict you to willing targets only. Declaring yourself 
as a willing target is something that can be done at any time (even if 
you’re flat-footed or it isn’t your turn). Unconscious creatures are 
automatically considered willing, but a character who is conscious 
but immobile or helpless (such as one who is bound, cowering, grap-
pling, paralyzed, pinned, or stunned) is not automatically willing. 
Some spells, such as flaming sphere and spiritual weapon, allow you 
to redirect the effect to new targets or areas after you cast the spell. 
Redirecting a spell is a move action that does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity. 
Effect: Some spells, such as summon monster  spells, create or 
summon things rather than affecting things that are already present. 
You must designate the location where these things are to appear, 
either by seeing it or defining it (for example, “The insect plague will 
appear 20 feet into the area of darkness that the nagas are hiding 
in”). Range determines how far away an effect can appear, but if the 
effect is mobile (a summoned monster, for instance), it can move 
regardless of the spell’s range. 
Ray: Some effects are rays (for example, ray of enfeeblement ). You 
aim a ray as if using a ranged weapon, though typically you make a 
ranged touch attack rather than a normal ranged attack. As with a 
ranged weapon, you can fire into the dark or at an invisible creature 
and hope you hit something. You don’t have to see the creature 
you’re trying to hit, as you do with a targeted spell. Intervening 
creatures and obstacles, however, can block your line of sight or 
provide cover for the creature you’re aiming at. 
If a ray spell has a duration, it’s the duration of the effect that the 
ray causes, not the length of time the ray itself persists. 
If a ray spell deals damage, you can score a critical hit just as if it 
were a weapon. A ray spell threatens a critical hit on a natural roll of 
20 and deals double damage on a successful critical hit. 
Spread: Some effects, notably clouds and fogs, spread out from a 
point of origin, which must be a grid intersection. The effect can 
extend around corners and into areas that you can’t see. Figure dis-
tance by actual distance traveled, taking into account turns the spell 
effect takes. When determining distance for spread effects, count 
around walls, not through them. As with movement, do not trace 
diagonals across corners. You must designate the point of origin for 
such an effect, but you need not have line of effect (see below) to all 
portions of the effect. Example: obscuring mist. 
Area: Some spells affect an area. Sometimes a spell description 
specifies a specially defined area, but usually an area falls into one of 
the categories defined below. 
Regardless of the shape of the area, you select the point where the 
spell originates, but otherwise you don’t control which creatures or 
objects the spell affects. The point of origin of a spell is always a grid 
intersection. When determining whether a given creature is within 
the area of a spell, count out the distance from the point of origin in 
squares just as you do when moving a character or when 
determining the range for a ranged attack. The only difference is 
that instead of counting from the center of one square to the center 
of the next, you count from intersection to intersection. You can 
count diagonally across a square, but remember that every second 
diagonal counts as 2 squares of distance. If the far edge of a square is 
within the spell’s area, anything within that square is within the 
spell’s area. If the spell’s area only touches the near edge of a square, 
however, anything within that square is unaffected by the spell. 
Burst, Emanation, or Spread: Most spells that affect an area function 
as a burst, an emanation, or a spread. In each case, you select the 
spell’s point of origin and measure its effect from that point. 
A burst spell affects whatever it catches in its area, even including 
creatures that you can’t see. For instance, if you can designate a four-
way intersection of corridors to be the point of origin of a dispel 
magic spell, the spell bursts in all four directions, possibly catching 
creatures that you can’t see because they’re around the corner from 
you but not from the point of origin. It can’t affect creatures with 
total cover from its point of origin (in other words, its effects don’t 
extend around corners). The default shape for a burst effect is a 
sphere, but some burst spells are specifically described as cone-
shaped. A burst’s area defines how far from the point of origin the 
spell’s effect extends. Example: holy smite. 
An emanation spell functions like a burst spell, except that the 
effect continues to radiate from the point of origin for the duration 
of the spell. Most emanations are cones or spheres. Example: det ect 
magic. 
A spread spell spreads out like a burst but can turn corners. You 
select the point of origin, and the spell spreads out a given distance 
in all directions. Figure the area the spell effect fills by taking into 
account any turns the spell effect takes. Example: fireball. 
Cone, Cylinder, Line, or Sphere:  Most spells that affect an area have a 
particular shape, such as a cone, cylinder, line, or sphere. 
A cone-shaped spell shoots away from you in a quarter-circle in 
the direction you designate. It starts from any corner of your square 
and widens out as it goes. Most cones are either bursts or emana-
tions (see above), and thus won’t go around corners. Example: cone of 
cold. 
When casting a cylinder-shaped spell, you select the spell’s point 
of origin. This point is the center of a horizontal circle, and the spell 
shoots down from the circle, filling a cylinder. A cylinder-shaped 
spell ignores any obstructions within its area. Example: flame strike. 
A line-shaped spell shoots away from you in a line in the direction 
you designate. It starts from any corner of your square and extends 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 