 
 176 
to the limit of its range or until it strikes a barrier that blocks line of 
effect. A line-shaped spell affects all creatures in squares that the line 
passes through. Example: lightning bolt. 
A sphere-shaped spell expands from its point of origin to fill a 
spherical area. Spheres may be bursts, emanations, or spreads. 
Example: globe of invulnerability. 
Creatures: A spell with this kind of area affects creatures directly 
(like a targeted spell), but it affects all creatures in an area of some 
kind rather than individual creatures you select. The area might be a 
spherical burst (such as sleep), a cone-shaped burst (such as fear), or 
some other shape. 
Many spells affect “living creatures,” which means all creatures 
other than constructs and undead. The sleep spell, for instance, 
affects only living creatures. If you cast sleep in the midst of gnolls 
and skeletons, the sleep spell ignores the skeletons and affects the 
gnolls. The skeletons do not count against the creatures affected. 
Objects: A spell with this kind of area affects objects within an area 
you select (as Creatures, but affecting objects instead). 
Other: A spell can have a unique area, as defined in its description. 
(S) Shapeable:  If an Area or Effect entry ends with “(S),” you can 
shape the spell. A shaped effect or area can have no dimension 
smaller than 10 feet. Many effects or areas are given as cubes to ma-
ke it easy to model irregular shapes. Three-dimensional volumes are 
most often needed to define aerial or underwater effects and areas. 
Line of Effect:  A line of effect is a straight, unblocked path that 
indicates what a spell can affect. A line of effect is canceled by a solid 
barrier. It’s like line of sight for ranged weapons, except that it’s not 
blocked by fog, darkness, and other factors that limit normal sight. 
You must have a clear line of effect to any target that you cast a 
spell on or to any space in which you wish to create an effect (such 
as conjuring a monster). You must have a clear line of effect to the 
point of origin of any spell you cast, such as the center of a fireball. A 
burst, cone, cylinder, or emanation spell affects only an area, 
creatures, or objects to which it has line of effect from its origin (a 
spherical burst’s center point, a cone-shaped burst’s starting point, a 
cylinder’s circle, or an emanation’s point of origin). 
An otherwise solid barrier with a hole of at least 1 square foot 
through it does not block a spell’s line of effect. Such an opening 
means that the 5-foot length of wall containing the hole is no longer 
considered a barrier for purposes of a spell’s line of effect. 
 
DURATION 
A spell’s Duration entry tells you how long the magical energy of the 
spell lasts. 
Timed Durations:  Many durations are measured in rounds, 
minutes, hours, or some other increment. When the time is up, the 
magic goes away and the spell ends. If a spell’s duration is variable 
(power word stun, for example) the DM rolls it secretly. 
Instantaneous: The spell energy comes and goes the instant the 
spell is cast, though the consequences might be long-lasting. For 
example, a cure light wounds  spell lasts only an instant, but the 
healing it bestows never runs out or goes away. 
Permanent: The energy remains as long as the effect does. This 
means the spell is vulnerable to dispel magic.  Example: secret page. 
Concentration: The spell lasts as long as you concentrate on it. 
Concentrating to maintain a spell is a standard action that does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity. Anything that could break your 
concentration when casting a spell can also break your con-
centration while you’re maintaining one, causing the spell to end. 
You can’t cast a spell while concentrating on another one. Some-
times a spell lasts for a short time after you cease concentrating. For 
example, the spell hypnotic pattern has a duration of concentration + 2 
rounds. In such a case, the spell keeps going for the given length of 
time after you stop concentrating, but no longer. Otherwise, you 
must concentrate to maintain the spell, but you can’t maintain it for 
more than a stated duration in any event. If a target moves out of 
range, the spell reacts as if your concentration had been broken. 
Subjects, Effects, and Areas:  If the spell affects creatures 
directly (for example, charm person ), the result travels with the sub-
jects for the spell’s duration. If the spell creates an effect, the effect 
lasts for the duration. The effect might move (for example, a sum-
moned monster might chase your enemies) or remain still. Such an 
effect can be destroyed prior to when its duration ends (for example, 
fog cloud  can be dispersed by wind). If the spell affects an area, as 
silence does, then the spell stays with that area for its duration. 
Creatures become subject to the spell when they enter the area and 
are no longer subject to it when they leave. 
Touch Spells and Holding the Charge:  In most cases, if you 
don’t discharge a touch spell on the round you cast it, you can hold 
the charge (postpone the discharge of the spell) indefinitely. You 
can make touch attacks round after round. If you cast another spell, 
the touch spell dissipates. 
Some touch spells, such as teleport and water walk , allow you to 
touch multiple targets as part of the spell. You can’t hold the charge 
of such a spell; you must touch all targets of the spell in the same 
round that you finish casting the spell. 
Discharge: Occasionally a spells lasts for a set duration or until 
triggered or discharged. For instance, magic mouth  waits until trig-
gered, and the spell ends once the mouth has said its message. 
(D) Dismissible:  If the Duration line ends with “(D),” you can 
dismiss the spell at will. You must be within range of the spell’s 
effect and must speak words of dismissal, which are usually a mod-
ified form of the spell’s verbal component. If the spell has no verbal 
component, you can dismiss the effect with a gesture. Dismissing a 
spell is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportu-
nity. A spell that depends on concentration is dismissible by its very 
nature, and dismissing it does not take an action, since all you have 
to do to end the spell is to stop concentrating on your turn. 
 
SAVING THROW 
Usually a harmful spell allows a target to make a saving throw to 
avoid some or all of the effect. The Saving Throw entry in a spell 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 