 
 177
description defines which type of saving throw the spell allows and 
describes how saving throws against the spell work. 
Negates: The spell has no effect on a subject that makes a suc-
cessful saving throw. 
Partial: The spell causes an effect on its subject, such as death. A 
successful saving throw means that some lesser effect occurs (such 
as being dealt damage rather than being killed). 
Half: The spell deals damage, and a successful saving throw 
halves the damage taken (round down). 
None: No saving throw is allowed. 
Disbelief: A successful save lets the subject ignore the effect. 
(object): The spell can be cast on objects, which receive saving 
throws only if they are magical or if they are attended (held, worn, 
grasped, or the like) by a creature resisting the spell, in which case 
the object uses the creature’s saving throw bonus unless its own 
bonus is greater. (This notation does not mean that a spell can be 
cast only on objects. Some spells of this sort can be cast on creatures 
or objects.) A magic item’s saving throw bonuses are each equal to 2 
+ one-half the item’s caster level. 
(harmless): The spell is usually beneficial, not harmful, but a 
targeted creature can attempt a saving throw if it desires. 
Saving Throw Difficulty Class:  A saving throw against your 
spell has a DC of 10 + the level of the spell + your bonus for the rel-
evant ability (Intelligence for a wizard, Charisma for a sorcerer or 
bard, or Wisdom for a cleric, druid, paladin, or ranger). A spell’s level 
can vary depending on your class. For example, a fire trap is a 2nd-
level spell for a druid but a 4th-level spell for a sorcerer or wizard. 
Always use the spell level applicable to your class. 
Succeeding on a Saving Throw:  A creature that successfully 
saves against a spell that has no obvious physical effects feels a 
hostile force or a tingle, but cannot deduce the exact nature of the 
attack. For example, if you secretly cast charm person  on a creature 
and its saving throw succeeds, it knows that someone used magic 
against it, but it can’t tell what you were trying to do. Likewise, if a 
creature’s saving throw succeeds against a targeted spell, such as 
charm person , you sense that the spell has failed. You do not sense 
when creatures succeed on saves against effect and area spells. 
Automatic Failures and Successes:  A natural 1 (the d20 comes 
up 1) on a saving throw is always a failure, and the spell may cause 
damage to exposed items (see Items Surviving after a Saving Throw, 
below). A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) is always a success. 
Voluntarily Giving up a Saving Throw:  A creature can volun-
tarily forego a saving throw and willingly accept a spell’s result. Even 
a character with a special resistance to magic (for example, an elf’s 
resistance to sleep effects) can suppress this quality. 
 
Table 10–1: Items Affected by Magical Attacks 
Order1 Item 
1st Shield 
2nd Armor 
3rd Magic helmet, hat, or headband 
4th Item in hand (including weapon, wand, or the like) 
5th Magic cloak 
6th Stowed or sheathed weapon 
7th Magic bracers 
8th Magic clothing 
9th Magic jewelry (including rings) 
10th Anything else 
1 In order of most likely to least likely to be affected.
 
 
Items Surviving after a Saving Throw:  Unless the descriptive 
text for the spell specifies otherwise, all items carried or worn by a 
creature are assumed to survive a magical attack. If a creature rolls a 
natural 1 on its saving throw against the effect, however, an exposed 
item is harmed (if the attack can harm objects). Refer to Table 10–1: 
Items Affected by Magical Attacks. Determine which four objects 
carried or worn by the creature are most likely to be affected and roll 
randomly among them. The randomly determined item must make 
a saving throw against the attack form and take whatever damage 
the attack deal (see Smashing an Object, page 165). For instance, 
T o r d e k  i s  h i t  b y  a  lightning bolt  and gets a natural 1 on his saving 
throw. The items of his most likely to have been affected are his 
shield, his armor, his waraxe (in his hand), and his shortbow 
(stowed). (He doesn’t have magic headgear or a magic cloak, so those 
entries are skipped.) 
If an item is not carried or worn and is not magical, it does not get 
a saving throw. It simply is dealt the appropriate damage. 
 
SPELL RESISTANCE 
Spell resistance is a special defensive ability. If your spell is being 
resisted by a creature with spell resistance, you must make a caster 
level check (1d20 + caster level) at least equal to the creature’s spell 
resistance for the spell to affect that creature. The defender’s spell 
resistance is like an Armor Class against magical attacks. The Dun-
geon Master’s Guide  has more details on spell resistance. Include any 
adjustments to your caster level (such as from domain granted 
powers) to this caster level check. 
The Spell Resistance entry and the descriptive text of a spell 
description tell you whether spell resistance protects creatures from 
the spell. In many cases, spell resistance applies only when a 
resistant creature is targeted by the spell, not when a resistant crea-
ture encounters a spell that is already in place. 
The terms “object” and “harmless” mean the same thing for spell 
resistance as they do for saving throws. A creature with spell 
resistance must voluntarily lower the resistance (a standard action) 
in order to be affected by a spell noted as harmless. In such a case, 
you do not need to make the caster level check described above. 
 
DESCRIPTIVE TEXT 
This portion of a spell description details what the spell does and 
how it works. If one of the previous entries in the description 
included “see text,” this is where the explanation is found. If the 
spell you’re reading about is based on another spell (see Spell 
Chains, page 181), you might have to refer to a different spell for the 
“see text” information. 
 
ARCANE SPELLS 
Wizards, sorcerers, and bards cast arcane spells, which involve the 
direct manipulation of mystic energies. These manipulations require 
natural talent (in the case of sorcerers), long study (in the case of 
wizards), or both (in the case of bards). Compared to divine spells, 
arcane spells are more likely to produce dramatic results, such as 
flight, explosions, or transformations. 
 
PREPARING WIZARD SPELLS 
Before setting out on an adventure with her companions, Mialee 
pores over her spellbook and prepares two 1st-level spells (one for 
being a 1st-level wizard and an additional one as her 1st-level bonus 
spell for Intelligence 15) and three 0-level spells. (Arcane 
spellcasters often call their 0-level spells “cantrips.”) From the spells 
in her spellbook, she chooses charm person, sleep, detect magic (twice), 
and light. While traveling, she and her party are attacked by gnoll 
raiders, and she casts her sleep spell. After she and her companions 
have dispatched the gnolls, she casts detect magic to see whether any 
of the gnolls’ items are enchanted. (They’re not.) The party then 
camps for the night in the wilderness. Come morning, Mialee can 
once again prepare spells from her spellbook. She already has charm 
person, detect magic  (once), and light prepared from the day before. 
She chooses to abandon her light spell and then prepare sleep, detect 
magic, and ghost sound . It takes her a little over half an hour to 
prepare these spells because they represent a little over half of her 
daily capacity. 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 