 
 178 
A wizard’s level limits the number of spells she can prepare and 
cast (see Table 3–18: The Wizard, page 55). Her high Intelligence 
score (see Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8) 
might allow her to prepare a few extra spells. She can prepare the 
same spell more than once, but each preparation counts as one spell 
toward her daily limit. Preparing an arcane spell is an arduous 
mental task. To do so, the wizard must have an Intelligence score of 
at least 10 + the spell’s level. 
Rest: To prepare her daily spells, a wizard must have a clear mind. 
To clear her mind she must first sleep for 8 hours. The wizard does 
not have to slumber for every minute of the time, but she must 
refrain from movement, combat, spellcasting, skill use, conversa-
tion, or any other fairly demanding physical or mental task during 
the rest period. If her rest is interrupted, each interruption adds 1 
hour to the total amount of time she has to rest in order to clear her 
mind, and she must have at least 1 hour of uninterrupted rest imme-
diately prior to preparing her spells. If the character does not need 
to sleep for some reason, she still must have 8 hours of restful calm 
before preparing any spells. For example, elf wizards need 8 hours of 
rest to clear their minds. Thus, an elf wizard could trance for 4 hours 
and rest for 4 hours, then prepare spells. 
Recent Casting Limit/Rest Interruptions:  If a wizard has cast 
spells recently, the drain on her resources reduces her capacity to 
prepare new spells. When she prepares spells for the coming day, all 
the spells she has cast within the last 8 hours count against her daily 
limit. If Mialee can normally cast two 1st-level spells per day, but she 
had to cast magic missile during the night, she can prepare only one 
1st-level spell the next day. 
Preparation Environment: To prepare any spell, a wizard must 
have enough peace, quiet, and comfort to allow for proper 
concentration. The wizard’s surroundings need not be luxurious, but 
they must be free from overt distractions. Exposure to inclement 
weather prevents the necessary concentration, as does any injury or 
failed saving throw the character might experience while studying. 
Wizards also must have access to their spellbooks to study from and 
sufficient light to read them by. There is one major exception: A 
wizard can prepare a read magic  spell even without a spellbook. A 
great portion of her initial training goes into mastering this minor 
but vital feat of magic. 
Spell Preparation Time:  After resting, a wizard must study her 
spellbook to prepare any spells that day. If she wants to prepare all 
her spells, the process takes 1 hour. Preparing some smaller portion 
of her daily capacity takes a proportionally smaller amount of time, 
but always at least 15 minutes, the minimum time required to 
achieve the proper mental state. 
Spell Selection and Preparation: Until she prepares spells from 
her spellbook, the only spells a wizard has available to cast are the 
ones that she already had prepared from the previous day and has 
not yet used. During the study period, she chooses which spells to 
prepare. The act of preparing a spell is actually the first step in 
casting it. A spell is designed in such a way that it has an 
interruption point near its end. This allows a wizard to cast most of 
the spell ahead of time and finish when it’s needed, even if she is 
under considerable pressure. Her spellbook serves as a guide to the 
mental exercises she must perform to create the spell’s effect. If a 
wizard already has spells prepared (from the previous day) that she 
has not cast, she can abandon some or all of them to make room for 
new spells. 
When preparing spells for the day, a wizard can leave some of 
these spell slots open. Later during that day, she can repeat the 
preparation process as often as she likes, time and circumstances 
permitting. During these extra sessions of preparation, the wizard 
can fill these unused spell slots. She cannot, however, abandon a 
previously prepared spell to replace it with another one or fill a slot 
that is empty because she has cast a spell in the meantime. That sort 
of preparation requires a mind fresh from rest. Like the first session 
of the day, this preparation takes at least 15 minutes, and it takes 
longer if the wizard prepares more than one-quarter of her spells. 
Spell Slots:  The various character class tables in Chapter 3: 
Classes show how many spells of each level a character can cast per 
day. These openings for daily spells are called spell slots. A 
spellcaster always has the option to fill a higher-level spell slot with 
a lower-level spell. For example, a 7th-level wizard has at least one 
4th-level spell slot and two 3rd-level spell slots (see Table 3–18: The 
Wizard, page 55). However, the character could choose to prepare 
three 3rd-level spells instead, filling the 4th-level slot with a 3rd-
level spell. A spellcaster who lacks a high enough ability score to cast 
spells that would otherwise be his or her due still gets the slots but 
must fill them with spells of lower level. 
Prepared Spell Retention:  Once a wizard prepares a spell, it 
remains in her mind as a nearly cast spell until she uses the pre-
scribed components to complete and trigger it or until she abandons 
it. Upon the casting of a spell, the spell’s energy is expended and 
purged from the character, leaving her feeling a little tired. Certain 
other events, such as the effects of magic items or special attacks 
from monsters, can wipe a prepared spell from a character’s mind. 
Death and Prepared Spell Retention:  If a spellcaster dies, all 
prepared spells stored in his or her mind are wiped away. Potent 
magic (such as raise dead, resurrection, or true resurrection) can recover 
the lost energy when it recovers the character. 
 
ARCANE MAGICAL WRITINGS 
To record an arcane spell in written form, a character uses complex 
notation that describes the magical forces involved in the spell. The 
notation constitutes a universal arcane language that wizards have 
discovered, not invented. The writer uses the same system no matter 
what her native language or culture. However, each character uses 
the system in her own way. Another person’s magical writing 
remains incomprehensible to even the most powerful wizard until 
she takes time to study and decipher it. 
To decipher an arcane magical writing (such as a single spell in 
written form in another’s spellbook or on a scroll), a character must 
make a Spellcraft check (DC 20 + the spell’s level). If the skill check 
fails, the character cannot attempt to read that particular spell again 
until the next day. A read magic spell automatically deciphers a magi-
cal writing without a skill check. If the person who created the mag-
ical writing is on hand to help the reader, success is also automatic. 
Once a character deciphers a particular magical writing, she does 
not need to decipher it again. Deciphering a magical writing allows 
the reader to identify the spell and gives some idea of its effects (as 
explained in the spell description). If the magical writing was a 
scroll and the reader can cast arcane spells, she can attempt to use 
the scroll (see the information on scrolls in the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide). 
 
Wizard Spells and Borrowed Spellbooks 
A wizard can use a borrowed spellbook to prepare a spell she already 
knows and has recorded in her own spellbook, but preparation 
success is not assured. First, the wizard must decipher the writing in 
the book (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Once a spell from 
another spellcaster’s book is deciphered, the reader must make a 
Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell’s level) to prepare the spell. If the 
check succeeds, the wizard can prepare the spell. She must repeat 
the check to prepare the spell again, no matter how many times she 
has prepared it before. If the check fails, she cannot try to prepare 
the spell from the same source again until the next day. (However, 
as explained above, she does not need to repeat a check to decipher 
the writing.) 
 
Adding Spells to a Wizard’s Spellbook 
Wizards can add new spells to their spellbooks through several 
methods. If a wizard has chosen to specialize in a school of magic, 
she can learn spells only from schools whose spells she can cast. 
Spells Gained at a New Level:  Wizards perform a certain 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 