 
 179
amount of spell research between adventures. Each time a character 
attains a new wizard level, she gains two spells of her choice to add 
to her spellbook. These spells represent the results of her research. 
The two free spells must be of spell levels she can cast. If she has 
chosen to specialize in a school of magic, one of the two free spells 
must be from her specialty school. 
Spells Copied from Another’s Spellbook or a Scroll:  A wizard 
can also add a spell to her book whenever she encounters one on a 
magic scroll or in another wizard’s spellbook. No matter what the 
spell’s source, the wizard must first decipher the magical writing 
(see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Next, she must spend a day 
studying the spell. At the end of the day, she must make a Spellcraft 
check (DC 15 + spell’s level). A wizard who has specialized in a 
school of spells gains a +2 bonus on the Spellcraft check if the new 
spell is from her specialty school. She cannot, however, learn any 
spells from her prohibited schools. 
If the check succeeds, the wizard understands the spell and can 
copy it into her spellbook (see Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook, 
below). The process leaves a spellbook that was copied from 
unharmed, but a spell successfully copied from a magic scroll dis-
appears from the parchment. 
If the check fails, the wizard cannot understand or copy the spell. 
She cannot attempt to learn or copy that spell again until she gains 
another rank in Spellcraft. A spell that was being copied from a 
scroll does not vanish from the scroll. 
In most cases, wizards charge a fee for the privilege of copying 
spells from their spellbooks. This fee is usually equal to the spell’s 
level × 50 gp, though many wizards jealously guard their higher-
level spells and may charge much more, or even deny access to them 
altogether. Wizards friendly to one another often trade access to 
equal-level spells from each other’s spellbooks at no cost. 
Independent Research:  A wizard also can research a spell 
independently, duplicating an existing spell or creating an entirely 
new one. The Dungeon Master’s Guide  has information on this topic 
under Creating New Spells in Chapter 2. 
 
Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook 
Once a wizard understands a new spell, she can record it into her 
spellbook. 
Time: The process takes 24 hours, regardless of the spell’s level. 
Space in the Spellbook:  A spell takes up one page of the spell-
book per spell level, so a 2nd-level spell takes two pages, a 5th-level 
spell takes five pages, and so forth. Even a 0-level spell (cantrip) 
takes one page. A spellbook has one hundred pages. 
Materials and Costs:  Materials for writing the spell (special 
quills, inks, and other supplies) cost 100 gp per page. 
Note that a wizard does not have to pay these costs in time or gold 
for the spells she gains for free at each new level. She simply adds 
these to her spellbook as part of her ongoing research. 
 
Replacing and Copying Spellbooks 
A wizard can use the procedure for learning a spell to reconstruct a 
lost spellbook. If she already has a particular spell prepared, she can 
write it directly into a new book at a cost of 100 gp per page (as 
noted in Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook, above). The process 
wipes the prepared spell from her mind, just as casting it would. If 
she does not have the spell prepared, she can prepare it from a bor-
rowed spellbook and then write it into a new book. 
Duplicating an existing spellbook uses the same procedure as 
replacing it, but the task is much easier. The time requirement and 
cost per page are halved. 
 
Selling a Spellbook 
Captured spellbooks can be sold for a gp amount equal to one-half 
the cost of purchasing and inscribing the spells within (that is, one-
half of 100 gp per page of spells). A spellbook entirely filled with 
spells (that is, with one hundred pages of spells inscribed in it) is 
worth 5,000 gp. 
SORCERERS AND BARDS 
Sorcerers and bards cast arcane spells, but they do not have spell-
books and do not prepare their spells. A sorcerer’s or bard’s class 
level limits the number of spells he can cast (see these class 
descriptions in Chapter 3: Classes). His high Charisma score (see 
Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8) might allow 
him to cast a few extra spells. A member of either class must have a 
Charisma score of at least 10 + a spell’s level to cast the spell. 
Daily Readying of Spells:  Each day, sorcerers and bards must 
focus their minds on the task of casting their spells. A sorcerer or 
bard needs 8 hours of rest (just like a wizard), after which he spends 
15 minutes concentrating. (A bard must sing, recite, or play an 
instrument of some kind while concentrating.) During this period, 
the sorcerer or bard readies his mind to cast his daily allotment of 
spells. Without such a period to refresh himself, the character does 
not regain the spell slots he used up the day before. 
For example, at 7th level, Gimble the bard can cast one 3rd-level 
spell (a bonus spell due to his 16 Charisma). If he casts a 3rd-level 
spell, he can’t use his 3rd-level spell slot again until the next day—
after he readies his spells for the day. 
Recent Casting Limit:  As with wizards, any spells cast within 
the last 8 hours count against the sorcerer’s or bard’s daily limit. 
Adding Spells to a Sorcerer’s or Bard’s Repertoire:  A sorcerer 
or bard gains spells each time he attains a new level in his class and 
never gains spells any other way. When your sorcerer or bard gains a 
new level, consult Table 3–5: Bard Spells Known or Table 3–17: 
Sorcerer Spells Known to learn how many spells from the 
appropriate spell list in Chapter 11: Spells he now knows. With the 
DM’s permission, sorcerers and bards can also select the spells they 
gain from new and unusual spells that they have gained some 
understanding of (see Spells in the sorcerer description, page 54). 
For instance, when Hennet the sorcerer becomes 2nd level, he 
gains an additional 0-level spell. He can pick that spell from the 0-
level spells on the sorcerer and wizard spell list, or he might have 
learned an unusual spell from an arcane scroll or spellbook. 
 
DIVINE SPELLS 
Clerics, druids, experienced paladins, and experienced rangers can 
cast divine spells. Unlike arcane spells, divine spells draw power 
from a divine source. Clerics gain spell power from deities or from 
divine forces. The divine force of nature powers druid and ranger 
spells. The divine forces of law and good power paladin spells. 
Divine spells tend to focus on healing and protection and are less 
flashy, destructive, and disruptive than arcane spells. 
 
PREPARING DIVINE SPELLS 
Divine spellcasters prepare their spells in largely the same manner 
as wizards do, but with a few differences. The relevant ability for 
divine spells is Wisdom. To prepare a divine spell, a character must 
have a Wisdom score of 10 + the spell’s level. For example, a cleric or 
druid must have a Wisdom score of at least 10 to prepare a 0-level 
spell and a Wisdom score of 11 to prepare a 1st-level spell. (Divine 
spellcasters often call their 0-level spells “orisons.”) Likewise, bonus 
spells are based on Wisdom. 
Time of Day:  A divine spellcaster chooses and prepares spells 
ahead of time, just as a wizard does. However, a divine spellcaster 
does not require a period of rest to prepare spells. Instead, the 
character chooses a particular part of the day to pray and receive 
spells. The time is usually associated with some daily event. Dawn, 
dusk, noon, and midnight are common choices. Some deities set the 
time or impose other special conditions for granting spells to their 
clerics. If some event prevents a character from praying at the 
proper time, he must do so as soon as possible. If the character does 
not stop to pray for spells at the first opportunity, he must wait until 
the next day to prepare spells. 
Spell Selection and Preparation:  A divine spellcaster selects 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 