 
 180 
and prepares spells ahead of time through prayer and meditation at a 
particular time of day. The time required to prepare spells is the 
same as it is for a wizard (1 hour), as is the requirement for a 
relatively peaceful environment. A divine spellcaster does not have 
to prepare all his spells at once. However, the character’s mind is 
considered fresh only during his or her first daily spell preparation, 
so a divine spellcaster cannot fill a slot that is empty because he or 
she has cast a spell or abandoned a previously prepared spell. 
Divine spellcasters do not require spellbooks. However, such a 
character’s spell selection is limited to the spells on the list for his or 
her class (see Chapter 11: Spells). Clerics, druids, paladins, and 
rangers have separate spell lists. A cleric also has access to two 
domains determined during his character creation. Each domain 
gives him access to a domain spell at each spell level from 1st to 9th, 
as well as a special granted power. With access to two domain spells 
at each spell level—one from each of his two domains—a cleric 
must prepare, as an extra domain spell, one or the other each day for 
each level of spell he can cast. (The extra domain spell is the “+1” 
that appears as part of the cleric’s Spells per Day figure on Table 3–6: 
The Cleric, page 31.) If a domain spell is not on the cleric spell list, it 
can be prepared only in a domain spell slot. 
Spell Slots: The character class tables in Chapter 3: Classes show 
how many spells of each level a character can cast per day. These 
openings for daily spells are called spell slots. A spellcaster always 
has the option to fill a higher-level spell slot with a lower-level spell. 
For example, a 7th-level cleric has at least one 4th-level spell slot and 
two 3rd-level spell slots. However, he could choose to prepare three 
3rd-level spells instead, filling the 4th-level slot with a lower-level 
spell. Similarly, he could fill his 4th-level domain spell slot with a 
lower-level domain spell. A spellcaster who lacks a high enough 
ability score to cast spells that would otherwise be his or her due still 
gets the slots but must fill them with spells of lower level. For 
example, a 9th-level cleric who has a Wisdom score of only 14 
cannot cast a 5th-level spell but can prepare an extra lower-level 
spell in its place and store it in the 5th-level spell slot. 
Recent Casting Limit:  As with arcane spells, at the time of 
preparation any spells cast within the previous 8 hours count against 
the number of spells that can be prepared. 
Spontaneous Casting of Cure and Inflict Spells:  A good cleric 
(or a cleric of a good deity) can spontaneously cast a cure spell in 
place of a prepared spell of the same level or higher, but not in place 
of a domain spell. An evil cleric (or a cleric of an evil deity) can spon-
taneously cast an inflict spell in place of a prepared spell (one that is 
not a domain spell) of the same level or higher. Each neutral cleric 
of a neutral deity either spontaneously casts cure spells like a good 
cleric or inflict spells like an evil one, depending on which option 
the player chooses when creating the character. The divine energy 
of the spell that the cure or inflict spell substitutes for is converted 
into the cure or inflict spell as if that spell had been prepared all 
along. 
Spontaneous Casting of Summon Nature’s Ally  Spells:  A druid 
can spontaneously cast a summon nature’s ally  spell in place of a pre-
pared spell of the same level or higher. The divine energy of the 
spell that the summon nature’s ally  spell substitutes for is converted 
into the summon spell as if that spell had been prepared all along. 
 
DIVINE MAGICAL WRITINGS 
Divine spells can be written down and deciphered just as arcane 
spells can (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Any character with 
the Spellcraft skill can attempt to decipher the divine magical 
writing and identify it. However, only characters who have the spell 
in question (in its divine form) on their class spell list can cast a 
divine spell from a scroll. 
 
NEW DIVINE SPELLS 
Divine spellcasters most frequently gain new spells in one of the 
following two ways. 
Spells Gained at a New Level:  Characters who can cast divine 
spells undertake a certain amount of study between adventures. 
Each time such a character receives a new level of divine spells, he 
or she learns new spells from that level automatically. 
Independent Research: A divine spellcaster also can research a 
spell independently, much as an arcane spellcaster can. (The Dun-
geon Master’s Guide  has information on this topic under Creating 
New Spells in Chapter 2.) Only the creator of such a spell can 
prepare and cast it, unless he decides to share it with others. Some 
such creators share their research with their churches, but others do 
not. The character can create a magic scroll (provided that he or she 
has the Scribe Scroll feat) or write a special text similar to a spell-
book to contain spells he or she has independently researched. 
Other divine spellcasters who find the spell in written form can 
learn to cast it, provided they are of sufficient level to do so and are 
of the same class as the creator. The process requires deciphering the 
writing (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). 
 
SPECIAL ABILITIES 
Medusas, dryads, harpies, and other magical creatures can create 
magical effects without being spellcasters. Characters using magic 
wands, rods, and other enchanted items, as well as certain class 
features, can also create magical effects. These effects come in two 
types: spell-like and supernatural. Additionally, members of certain 
classes and certain creatures can use special abilities that aren’t 
magical. These abilities are called extraordinary or natural. 
Spell-Like Abilities: A dryad’s charm person effect and the greater 
teleport ability of many devils are spell-like abilities Usually, a spell-
like ability works just like the spell of that name. A few spell-like 
abilities are unique; these are explained in the text where they are 
described. 
A spell-like ability has no verbal, somatic, or material component, 
nor does it require a focus or have an XP cost. The user activates it 
mentally. Armor never affects a spell-like ability’s use, even if the 
ability resembles an arcane spell with a somatic component. A spell-
like ability has a casting time of 1 standard action unless noted 
otherwise in the ability or spell description. In all other ways, a spell-
like ability functions just like a spell. 
Spell-like abilities are subject to spell resistance and to being dis-
pelled by dispel magic. They do not function in areas where magic is 
suppressed or negated, such as an antimagic field. Spell-like abilities 
cannot be used to counterspell, nor can they be counterspelled. 
Some creatures are actually sorcerers of a sort. They cast arcane 
spells as sorcerers do, using components when required. In fact, an 
individual creature (such as some dragons) could have some spell-
like abilities and also cast other spells as a sorcerer. 
Supernatural Abilities: A dragon’s fiery breath, a medusa’s pet-
rifying gaze, a spectre’s energy drain, and a cleric’s use of positive or 
negative energy to turn or rebuke undead are supernatural abilities 
These abilities cannot be disrupted in combat, as spells can, and they 
generally do not provoke attacks of opportunity. Supernatural 
abilities are not subject to spell resistance, counterspells, or to being 
dispelled by dispel magic, and do not function in areas where magic is 
suppressed or negated (such as an antimagic field). 
Extraordinary Abilities:  A rogue’s evasion ability and a troll’s 
ability to regenerate are extraordinary abilities. These abilities 
cannot be disrupted in combat, as spells can, and they generally do 
not provoke attacks of opportunity. Effects or areas that negate or 
disrupt magic have no effect on extraordinary abilities. They are not 
subject to dispelling, and they function normally in an antimagic 
field. Indeed, extraordinary abilities do not qualify as magical, 
though they may break the laws of physics. 
Natural Abilities: This category includes abilities a creature has 
because of its physical nature, such as a bird’s ability to fly. Natural 
abilities are those not otherwise designated as extraordinary, 
supernatural, or spell-like. 
CHAPTER 10: 
MAGIC 