 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
his chapter begins with the spell lists of the spellcasting 
classes and the list of cleric domains and the spells associ-
ated with each domain. An 
M or F appearing at the end of a 
spell’s name in the spell lists denotes a spell with a material or 
focus component, respectively, that is not normally included 
in a spell component pouch. An X denotes a spell with an XP 
component paid by the caster. 
The remainder of the chapter contains spell descriptions in 
alphabetical order by spell name. 
Spell Chains: Some spells reference other spells that they are 
based upon. (For instance, cure light wounds  is the spell upon which 
all other cure spells are based, and lesser planar ally  is the spell upon 
which planar ally and greater planar ally are based.) Only information 
about a spell elsewhere in the spell chain that is different from the 
base spell is covered in the spell being described. Spell description 
entries and descriptive text that are the same as the base spell are not 
repeated. 
Order of Presentation:  In the spell lists and the spell descrip-
tions that follow them, the spells are presented in alphabetical order 
by name except for those belonging to certain spell chains. When a 
spell’s name begins with “lesser,” “greater,” or “mass,” the spell 
description is alphabetized under the second word of the spell name 
instead. For instance, the spell mass suggestion is entered in the lists 
as “Suggestion, Mass,” and its description can be found immediately 
following the description for suggestion. 
Hit Dice:  The term “Hit Dice” is used synonymously with 
“character levels” for effects that affect a number of Hit Dice of 
creatures. Creatures with Hit Dice only from their race, not from 
classes, have character levels equal to their Hit Dice. 
Caster Level:  A spell’s power often depends on caster level, 
which is defined as the caster’s class level for the purpose of casting a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
particular spell. A creature with no classes has a caster level equal 
to its Hit Dice unless otherwise specified. The word “level” in the 
spell lists that follow always refers to caster level. 
Spell Effects and Conditions:  If a spell causes its subject or 
subjects to be affected by one or more conditions (such as 
blinded, incorporeal, invisible, or stunned), refer to the glossary 
for details of how that condition affects the subject. Chapter 8 
of the Dungeon Master’s Guide  has more information on the 
various conditions. 
Creatures and Characters:  The words “creature” and 
“character” are used synonymously in the spell descriptions. 
 
BARD SPELLS 
 
0-LEVEL BARD SPELLS (CANTRIPS) 
Dancing Lights: Creates torches or other lights. 
Daze: Humanoid creature of 4 HD or less loses next 
action. 
Detect Magic: Detects spells and magic items within 
60 ft. 
Flare: Dazzles one creature (–1 on attack rolls). 
Ghost Sound: Figment sounds. 
Know Direction: You discern north. 
Light: Object shines like a torch. 
Lullaby: Makes subject drowsy; –5 on Spot and Listen checks, 
–2 on Will saves against sleep. 
Mage Hand: 5-pound telekinesis. 
Mending: Makes minor repairs on an object. 
 181