 
 196 
Evoc Bigby’s Clenched Fist:  Large hand provides cover, pushes, 
or attacks your foes. 
 Otiluke’s Telekinetic Sphere:  As Otiluke’s resilient sphere , 
but you move sphere telekinetically. 
 Polar Ray:  Ranged touch attack deals 1d6/level cold 
damage. 
 Shout, Greater:  Devastating yell deals 10d6 sonic damage; 
stuns creatures, damages objects. 
 Sunburst:  Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 6d6 damage. 
Illus Scintillating Pattern:  Twisting colors confuse, stun, or 
render unconscious. 
 Screen:  Illusion hides area from vision, scrying. 
 Shadow Evocation, Greater:  As shadow evocation, but up to 
7th level and 60% real. 
Necro Clone M F: Duplicate awakens when original dies. 
 Create Greater Undead M: Create shadows, wraiths, spec-
tres, or devourers. 
 Horrid Wilting:  Deals 1d6/level damage within 30 ft. 
 Symbol of Death M: Triggered rune slays nearby creatures. 
Trans Iron Body: Your body becomes living iron. 
 Polymorph Any Object:  Changes any subject into any-
thing else. 
 Temporal Stasis M: Puts subject into suspended animation. 
 
9TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 
Abjur Freedom: Releases creature from imprisonment. 
 Imprisonment:  Entombs subject beneath the earth. 
 Mordenkainen’s Disjunction:  Dispels magic, disenchants 
magic items. 
 
 
 
 
 Prismatic Sphere:  As prismatic wall , but surrounds on all 
sides. 
Conj Gate 
X: Connects two planes for travel or summoning. 
 Refuge M: Alters item to transport its possessor to you. 
 Summon Monster IX:  Calls extraplanar creature to fight 
for you. 
 Teleportation Circle M: Circle teleports any creature inside 
to designated spot. 
Div Foresight: “Sixth sense” warns of impending danger. 
Ench Dominate Monster: As dominate person, but any creature. 
 Hold Monster, Mass:  As hold monster, but all within 30 ft. 
 Power Word Kill:  Kills one creature with 100 hp or less. 
Evoc Bigby’s Crushing Hand:  Large hand provides cover, 
pushes, or crushes your foes. 
 Meteor Swarm:  Four exploding spheres each deal 6d6 fire 
damage. 
Illus Shades: As shadow conjuration , but up to 8th level and 80% 
real. 
 Weird:  As phantasmal killer, but affects all within 30 ft. 
Necro Astral Projection M: Projects you and companions onto 
Astral Plane. 
 Energy Drain:  Subject gains 2d4 negative levels. 
 Soul Bind F: Traps newly dead soul to prevent resurrection. 
 Wail of the Banshee:  Kills one creature/level. 
Trans Etherealness: Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions. 
 Shapechange F: Transforms you into any creature, and 
change forms once per round. 
 Time Stop:  You act freely for 1d4+1 rounds. 
Univ Wish X: As limited wish, but with fewer limits. 
 
SPELLS 
The spells herein are presented in alpha-
betical order (with the exception of those 
whose names begin with “greater,” “lesser,” 
or “mass”; see Order of Presentation, page 
181). 
 
Acid Fog 
Conjuration (Creation) [Acid] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6, Water 7 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Fog spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. 
high 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Acid fog  creates a billowing mass of misty 
vapors similar to that produced by a solid 
fog spell (page 281). In addition to slowing 
creatures down and obscuring sight, this 
spell’s vapors are highly acidic. Each round 
on your turn, starting when you cast the 
spell, the fog deals 2d6 points of acid 
damage to each creature and object within 
it. 
Arcane Material Component:  A pinch of 
dried, powdered peas combined with pow-
dered animal hoof. 
 
 
Acid Splash 
Conjuration (Creation) [Acid] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One missile of acid 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You fire a small orb of acid at the target. 
You must succeed on a ranged touch attack 
to hit your target. The orb deals 1d3 points 
of acid damage. 
 
Aid 
Enchantment (Compulsion) 
[Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 2, Good 2, Luck 2 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
Aid grants the target a +1 morale bonus on 
attack rolls and saves against fear effects, 
plus temporary hit points equal to 1d8 + 
caster level (to a maximum of 1d8+10 tem-
porary hit points at caster level 10th). 
Air Walk 
Transmutation [Air] 
Level: Air 4, Clr 4, Drd 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature (Gargantuan or smaller) 
touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The subject can tread on air as if walking 
on solid ground. Moving upward is similar 
to walking up a hill. The maximum 
upward or downward angle possible is 45 
degrees, at a rate equal to one-half the air 
walker’s normal speed. 
A strong wind (21+ mph) can push the 
subject along or hold it back. At the end of 
its turn each round, the wind blows the air 
walker 5 feet for each 5 miles per hour of 
wind speed. The creature can, at the DM’s 
option, be subject to additional penalties in 
exceptionally strong or turbulent winds, 
such as loss of control over movement or 
physical damage from being buffeted 
about. 
Should the spell duration expire while 
the subject is still aloft, the magic fails 
slowly. The subject floats downward 60 
feet per round for 1d6 rounds. If it reaches 
the ground in that amount of time, it lands 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 