 
 197
safely. If not, it falls the rest of the dis-
tance, taking 1d6 points of damage per 10 
feet of fall. Since dispelling a spell effect-
tively ends it, the subject also descends in 
this way if the air walk  spell is dispelled, 
but not if it is negated by an antimagic field. 
You can cast air walk on a specially 
trained mount so it can be ridden through 
the air. You can train a mount to move 
with the aid of air walk  (counts as a trick; 
see page 74) with one week of work and a 
DC 25 Handle Animal check. 
 
Alarm 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, F/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius emanation centered on 
a point in space 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Alarm sounds a mental or audible alarm 
each time a creature of Tiny or larger size 
enters the warded area or touches it. A 
creature that speaks the password (deter-
mined by you at the time of casting) does 
not set off the alarm. You decide at the 
time of casting whether the alarm will be 
mental or audible. 
Mental Alarm: A mental alarm alerts you 
(and only you) so long as you remain 
within 1 mile of the warded area. You note 
a single mental “ping” that awakens you 
from normal sleep but does not otherwise 
disturb concentration. A silence spell has no 
effect on a mental alarm. 
Audible Alarm:  An audible alarm pro-
duces the sound of a hand bell, and anyone 
within 60 feet of the warded area can hear 
it clearly. Reduce the distance by 10 feet 
for each interposing closed door and by 20 
feet for each substantial interposing wall. 
In quiet conditions, the ringing can be 
heard faintly as far as 180 feet away. The 
sound lasts for 1 round. Creatures within a 
silence spell cannot hear the ringing. 
Ethereal or astral creatures do not trig-
ger the alarm. 
Alarm can be made permanent with a 
permanency spell. 
Arcane Focus:  A tiny bell and a piece of 
very fine silver wire 
 
Align Weapon 
Transmutation [see text] 
Level: Clr 2 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Weapon touched or fifty projec-
tiles (all of which must be in contact 
with each other at the time of casting) 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
 
Align weapon  makes a weapon good, evil, 
lawful, or chaotic, as you choose. A weapon 
that is aligned can bypass the damage 
reduction of certain creatures, usually out-
siders of the opposite alignment. This spell 
has no effect on a weapon that already has 
an alignment, such as a holy sword. 
You can’t cast this spell on a natural 
weapon, such as an unarmed strike. 
When you make a weapon good, evil, 
lawful, or chaotic, align weapon  is a good, 
evil, lawful, or chaotic spell, respectively. 
 
Alter Self 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
 
You assume the form of a creature of the 
same type as your normal form (such as 
humanoid or magical beast). The new form 
must be within one size category of your 
normal size. The maximum HD of an 
assumed form is equal to your caster level, 
to a maximum of 5 HD at 5th level. You 
can change into a member of your own 
kind or even into yourself. 
You retain your own ability scores. Your 
class and level, hit points, alignment, base 
attack bonus, and base save bonuses all 
remain the same. You retain all supernatu-
ral and spell-like special attacks and quali-
ties of your normal form, except for those 
requiring a body part that the new form 
does not have (such as a mouth for a breath 
weapon or eyes for a gaze attack). You keep 
all extraordinary special attacks and 
qualities derived from class levels (such as 
a barbarian’s rage ability), but you lose any 
from your normal form that are not 
derived from class levels (such as a 
dragon’s frightful presence ability). 
If the new form is capable of speech, 
you can communicate normally. You 
retain any spellcasting ability you had in 
your original form, but the new form must 
be able to speak intelligibly (that is, speak a 
language) to use verbal components and 
must have limbs capable of fine manipu-
lation to use somatic or material compo-
nents. 
You acquire the physical qualities of the 
new form while retaining your own mind. 
Physical qualities include natural size, 
mundane movement capabilities (such as 
burrowing, climbing, walking, swimming, 
and flight with wings, to a maximum speed 
of 120 feet for flying or 60 feet for 
nonflying movement), natural armor 
bonus, natural weapons (such as claws, 
bite, and so on), racial skill bonuses, racial 
bonus feats, and any gross physical quali-
ties (presence or absence of wings, number 
of extremities, and so forth). A body with 
extra limbs does not allow you to make 
more attacks (or more advantageous two-
weapon attacks) than normal. 
You do not gain any extraordinary spe-
cial attacks or special qualities not noted 
above under physical qualities, such as 
darkvision, low-light vision, blindsense, 
blindsight, fast healing, regeneration, 
scent, and so forth. 
You do not gain any supernatural special 
attacks, special qualities, or spell-like 
abilities of the new form. Your creature 
type and subtype (if any) remain the same 
regardless of your new form. You cannot 
take the form of any creature with a tem-
plate, even if that template doesn’t change 
the creature type or subtype. 
You can freely designate the new form’s 
minor physical qualities (such as hair co-
lor, hair texture, and skin color) within the 
normal ranges for a creature of that kind. 
The new form’s significant physical quali-
ties (such as height, weight, and gender) 
are also under your control, but they must 
fall within the norms for the new form’s 
kind. You are effectively disguised as an 
average member of the new form’s race. If 
you use this spell to create a disguise, you 
get a +10 bonus on your Disguise check. 
When the change occurs, your equip-
ment, if any, either remains worn or held 
by the new form (if it is capable of wearing 
or holding the item), or melds into the 
new form and becomes nonfunctional. 
When you revert to your true form, any 
objects previously melded into the new 
form reappear in the same location on your 
body they previously occupied and are 
once again functional. Any new items you 
wore in the assumed form and can’t wear 
in your normal form fall off and land at 
your feet; any that you could wear in either 
form or carry in a body part common to 
both forms (mouth, hands, or the like) at 
the time of reversion are still held in the 
same way. Any part of the body or piece of 
equipment that is separated from the 
whole reverts to its true form. 
 
Analyze Dweomer 
Divination 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: One object or creature per caster 
level 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates; see 
text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 