 
 198 
You discern all spells and magical proper-
ties present in a number of creatures or 
objects. Each round, you may examine a 
single creature or object that you can see as 
a free action. In the case of a magic item, 
you learn its functions, how to activate its 
functions (if appropriate), and how many 
charges are left (if it uses charges). In the 
case of an object or creature with active 
spells cast upon it, you learn each spell, its 
effect, and its caster level. 
An attended object may attempt a Will 
save to resist this effect if its holder so 
desires. If the save succeeds, you learn 
nothing about the object except what you 
can discern by looking at it. An object that 
makes its save cannot be affected by any 
other analyze dweomer spells for 24 hours. 
Analyze dweomer does not function when 
used on an artifact (see the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide for details on artifacts). 
Focus: A tiny lens of ruby or sapphire set 
in a small golden loop. The gemstone must 
be worth at least 1,500 gp. 
 
Animal Growth 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 5, Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: Up to one animal (Gargantuan or 
smaller) per two levels, no two of which 
can be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A number of animals grow to twice their 
normal size and eight times their normal 
weight. This alteration changes each 
animal’s size category to the next largest 
(from Large to Huge, for example), grants 
it a +8 size bonus to Strength and a +4 size 
bonus to Constitution (and thus an extra 2 
hit points per HD), and imposes a –2 size 
penalty to Dexterity. The creature’s 
existing natural armor bonus increases by 
2. The size change also affects the animal’s 
modifier to AC and attack rolls and its base 
damage, as detailed on Table 2–2 in the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide . The animal’s space 
and reach change as indicated on Table 8–
4: Creature Size and Scale (page 149), but 
its speed does not change. 
The spell also grants each subject 
damage reduction 10/magic and a +4 
resistance bonus on saving throws. 
If insufficient room is available for the 
desired growth, the creature attains the 
maximum possible size and may make a 
Strength check (using its increased 
Strength) to burst any enclosures in the 
process. If it fails, it is constrained without 
harm by the materials enclosing it—the 
spell cannot be used to crush a creature by 
increasing its size. 
All equipment worn or carried by an 
animal is similarly enlarged by the spell, 
though this change has no effect on the 
magical properties of any such equipment. 
Any enlarged item that leaves the enlarged 
creature’s possession instantly returns to 
its normal size. 
The spell gives no means of command 
or influence over the enlarged animals. 
Multiple magical effects that increase 
size do not stack, which means (among 
other things) that you can’t use a second 
casting of this spell to further increase the 
size of an animal that’s still under the 
effect of the first casting. 
 
Animal Messenger 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 2, Drd 2, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One Tiny animal 
Duration: One day/level 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You compel a Tiny animal to go to a spot 
you designate. The most common use for 
this spell is to get an animal to carry a 
message to your allies. The animal cannot 
be one tamed or trained by someone else, 
including such creatures as familiars and 
animal companions. 
Using some type of food desirable to the 
animal as a lure, you call the animal to you. 
It advances and awaits your bidding. You 
can mentally impress on the animal a cer-
tain place well known to you or an obvious 
landmark (such as the peak of a distant 
mountain). The directions must be simple, 
because the animal depends on your 
knowledge and can’t find a destination on 
its own. You can attach some small item or 
note to the messenger. The animal then 
goes to the designated location and waits 
there until the duration of the spell 
expires, whereupon it resumes its normal 
activities. 
During this period of waiting, the mes-
senger allows others to approach it and 
remove any scroll or token it carries. 
Unless the intended recipient of a message 
is expecting a messenger in the form of a 
bird or other small animal, the carrier may 
be ignored. The intended recipient gains 
no special ability to communicate with the 
animal or read any attached message (if it’s 
written in a language he or she doesn’t 
know, for example). 
Material Component:  A morsel of food 
the animal likes. 
 
Animal Shapes 
Transmutation 
Level: Animal 7, Drd 8 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: Up to one willing creature per 
level, all within 30 ft. of each other 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
As polymorph, except you polymorph up to 
one willing creature per caster level into 
an animal of your choice; the spell has no 
effect on unwilling creatures. All creatures 
must take the same kind of animal form; 
for example, you can’t turn one subject 
into a hawk and another into a dire wolf. 
Recipients remain in the animal form until 
the spell expires or until you dismiss it for 
all recipients. In addition, an individual 
subject may choose to resume its normal 
form as a full-round action; doing so ends 
the spell for that subject alone. The 
maximum HD of an assumed form is equal 
to the subject’s HD or your caster level, 
whichever is lower, to a maximum of 20 
HD at 20th level. 
 
Animal Trance 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting, Sonic] 
Level: Brd 2, Drd 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: Animals or magical beasts with 
Intelligence 1 or 2 
Duration: Concentration 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Your swaying motions and music (or 
singing, or chanting) compel animals and 
magical beasts to do nothing but watch 
you. Only a creature with an Intelligence 
score of 1 or 2 can be fascinated by this 
spell. Roll 2d6 to determine the total 
number of HD worth of creatures that you 
fascinate. The closest targets are selected 
first until no more targets within range can 
be affected. For example, if Vadania affects 
7 HD worth of animals and there are sev-
eral 2 HD wolves within close range, only 
the three closest wolves are affected. 
A magical beast, a dire animal, or an an-
imal trained to attack or guard is allowed a 
saving throw; an animal not trained to 
attack or guard is not. 
 
Animate Dead 
Necromancy [Evil] 
Level: Clr 3, Death 3, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: One or more corpses touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 