 
 199
This spell turns the bones or bodies of 
dead creatures into undead skeletons or 
zombies that follow your spoken com-
mands. The undead can follow you, or they 
can remain in an area and attack any 
creature (or just a specific kind of creature) 
entering the place. They remain animated 
until they are destroyed. (A destroyed 
skeleton or zombie can’t be animated 
again.) 
Regardless of the type of undead you 
create with this spell, you can’t create more 
HD of undead than twice your caster level 
with a single casting of animate dead. (The 
desecrate spell doubles this limit; see page 
218.) 
The undead you create remain under 
your control indefinitely. No matter how 
many times you use this spell, however, 
you can control only 4 HD worth of 
undead creatures per caster level. If you 
exceed this number, all the newly created 
creatures fall under your control, and any 
excess undead from previous castings 
become uncontrolled. (You choose which 
creatures are released.) If you are a cleric, 
any undead you might command by virtue 
of your power to command or rebuke 
undead do not count toward the limit. 
Skeletons: A skeleton can be created only 
from a mostly intact corpse or skeleton. 
The corpse must have bones, so creating a 
skeleton from a purple worm, for example, 
is not possible. If a skeleton is made from a 
corpse, the flesh falls off the bones. The 
statistics for a skeleton depend on its size; 
they do not depend on what abilities the 
creature may have had while alive. The 
Monster Manual  has game statistics for 
skeletons. 
Zombies: A zombie can be created only 
from a mostly intact corpse. The corpse 
must be that of a creature with a true 
anatomy, so a dead gelatinous cube, for 
example, cannot be animated as a zombie. 
The statistics for a zombie depend on its 
size, not on what abilities the creature may 
have had while alive. The Monster Manual  
has game statistics for zombies. 
Material Component:  You must place a 
black onyx gem worth at least 25 gp per 
Hit Die of the undead into the mouth or 
eye socket of each corpse you intend to 
animate. The magic of the spell turns these 
gems into worthless, burned-out shells. 
 
Animate Objects 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 6, Chaos 6, Clr 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One Small object per caster level; 
see text 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
You imbue inanimate objects with mobil-
ity and a semblance of life. Each such ani-
mated object then immediately attacks 
whomever or whatever you initially des-
ignate. An animated object can be of any 
nonmagical material—wood, metal, stone, 
fabric, leather, ceramic, glass, or the like.. 
You may animate one Small or smaller 
object (such as a chair) or an equivalent 
number of larger objects per caster level. A 
Medium object (such as a coat rack) counts 
as two Small or smaller objects, a Large 
object (such as a table) as four, a Huge 
object as eight, a Gargantuan object as 
sixteen, and a Colossal object as thirty-two. 
You can change the designated target or 
targets as a move action, as if directing an 
active spell. 
The Monster Manual  has game statistics 
for animated objects. 
This spell cannot animate objects car-
ried or worn by a creature. 
Animate objects  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 
 
Animate Plants 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 7, Plant 7 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: One Large plant per three caster 
levels or all plants within range; see text 
Duration: 1 round/level or 1 hour/level; 
see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You imbue inanimate plants with mobility 
and a semblance of life. Each animated 
plant then immediately attacks whomever 
or whatever you initially designate as 
though it were an animated object of the 
appropriate size category. You may ani-
mate one Large or smaller plant (such as a 
tree), or an equivalent number of larger 
plants, per three caster levels. A Huge 
plant counts as two Large or smaller plants, 
a Gargantuan plant as four, and a Colossal 
plant as eight. You can change the 
designated target or targets as a move 
action, as if directing an active spell. 
Use the statistics for animated objects 
found in the Monster Manual , except that 
plants smaller than Large don’t have hard-
ness unless the DM rules otherwise for a 
given case. 
Animate plants  cannot affect plant crea-
tures (such as treants), nor does it affect 
nonliving vegetable material (such as a 
cotton tunic or hempen rope). 
Entangle: Alternatively, you may imbue 
all plants within range with a degree of 
mobility, which allows them to entwine 
around creatures in the area. This usage of 
the spell duplicates the effect of an entangle 
spell. Spell resistance does not keep crea-
tures from being entangled. This effect 
lasts 1 hour per caster level. 
 
Animate Rope 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One ropelike object, length up to 
50 ft. + 5 ft./level; see text 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You can animate a nonliving ropelike 
object, such as string, yarn, cord, line, rope, 
or even a cable. The maximum length 
assumes a rope with a 1-inch diameter. 
Reduce the maximum length by 50% for 
every additional inch of thickness, and 
increase it by 50% for each reduction of the 
rope’s diameter by half. 
The possible commands are “coil” (form 
a neat, coiled stack), “coil and knot,” “loop,” 
“loop and knot,” “tie and knot,” and the 
opposites of all of the above (“uncoil,” and 
so forth). You can give one command each 
round as a move action, as if directing an 
active spell. 
The rope can enwrap only a creature or 
an object within 1 foot of it—it does not 
snake outward—so it must be thrown near 
the intended target. Doing so requires a 
successful ranged touch attack roll (range 
increment 10 feet). A typical 1-inch-
diameter hempen rope has 2 hit points, AC 
10, and requires a DC 23 Strength check to 
burst it. The rope does not deal damage, 
but it can be used as a trip line or to cause a 
single opponent that fails a Reflex saving 
throw to become entangled. A creature 
capable of spellcasting that is bound by 
this spell must make a DC 15 Concen-
tration check to cast a spell. An entangled 
creature can slip free with a DC 20 Escape 
Artist check. 
The rope itself and any knots tied in it 
are not magical. 
This spell grants a +2 bonus on any Use 
Rope checks you make when using the 
transmuted rope. 
The spell cannot animate objects carried 
or worn by a creature. 
 
Antilife Shell 
Abjuration 
Level: Animal 6, Clr 6, Drd 6 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: 10 ft. 
Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on 
you 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 