 
 200 
You bring into being a mobile, hemi-
spherical energy field that prevents the 
entrance of most types of living creatures. 
The effect hedges out animals, aberrations, 
dragons, fey, giants, humanoids, magical 
beasts, monstrous humanoids, oozes, 
plants, and vermin, but not constructs, 
elementals, outsiders, or undead. See the 
Monster Manual  for more about creature 
types. 
This spell may be used only defensively, 
not aggressively. Forcing an abjuration 
barrier against creatures that the spell 
keeps at bay collapses the barrier (see 
Abjuration, page 172). 
 
Antimagic Field 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 8, Magic 6, Protection 6, 
Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 10 ft. 
Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on 
you 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: See text 
 
An invisible barrier surrounds you and 
moves with you. The space within this 
barrier is impervious to most magical 
effects, including spells, spell-like abilities, 
and supernatural abilities. Likewise, it 
prevents the functioning of any magic 
items or spells within its confines. 
An antimagic field suppresses any spell or 
magical effect used within, brought into, 
or cast into the area, but does not dispel it. 
A hasted creature, for example, is not hasted 
while inside the field, but the spell 
resumes functioning when the creature 
leaves the field. Time spent within an 
antimagic field  counts against the sup-
pressed spell’s duration. 
Summoned creatures of any type and 
incorporeal undead wink out if they enter 
an antimagic field . They reappear in the 
same spot once the field goes away. Time 
spent winked out counts normally against 
the duration of the conjuration that is 
maintaining the creature. If you cast 
antimagic field  i n  a n  a r e a  o c c u p i e d  b y  a  
summoned creature that has spell resist-
ance, you must make a caster level check 
(1d20 + caster level) against the creature’s 
spell resistance to make it wink out. (The 
effects of instantaneous conjurations, such 
as create water , are not affected by an 
antimagic field  because the conjuration 
itself is no longer in effect, only its result.) 
A normal creature (a normally encoun-
tered griffon rather than a conjured one, 
for instance) can enter the area, as can 
normal missiles. Furthermore, while a 
magic sword does not function magically 
within the area, it is still a sword (and a 
masterwork sword at that). The spell has 
no effect on golems and other constructs 
that are imbued with magic during their 
creation process and are thereafter self-
supporting (unless they have been sum-
moned, in which case they are treated like 
any other summoned creatures). Elemen-
tals, corporeal undead, and outsiders are 
likewise unaffected unless summoned. 
These creatures’ spell-like or supernatural 
abilities, however, may be temporarily 
nullified by the field. 
Dispel magic  does not remove the field. 
Two or more antimagic fields sharing any of 
the same space have no effect on each 
other. Certain spells, such as wall of force , 
prismatic sphere , and prismatic wall , remain 
unaffected by antimagic field  (see the indi-
vidual spell descriptions). Artifacts and 
deities are unaffected by mortal magic 
such as this. (See the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for more about artifacts.) 
Should a creature be larger than the area 
enclosed by the barrier, any part of it that 
lies outside the barrier is unaffected by the 
field. 
Arcane Material Component:  A pinch of 
powdered iron or iron filings. 
 
Antipathy 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 hour 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One location (up to a 10-ft. 
cube/level) or one object 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You cause an object or location to emanate 
magical vibrations that repel either a 
specific kind of intelligent creature or 
creatures of a particular alignment, as 
defined by you. The kind of creature to be 
affected must be named specifically—for 
example, red dragons, hill giants, wererats, 
lammasus, cloakers, or vampires. A 
creature subtype (such as goblinoid) is not 
specific enough. Likewise, the specific 
alignment to be repelled must be named—
for example, chaotic evil, chaotic good, 
lawful neutral, or neutral. 
Creatures of the designated kind or 
alignment feel an overpowering urge to 
leave the area or to avoid the affected item. 
A compulsion forces them to abandon the 
area or item, shunning it and never will-
ingly returning to it while the spell is in 
effect. A creature that makes a successful 
saving throw can stay in the area or touch 
the item but feels uncomfortable doing so. 
This distracting discomfort reduces the 
creature’s Dexterity score by 4 points. 
Antipathy counters and dispels sympathy. 
Arcane Material Component:  A lump of 
alum soaked in vinegar. 
 
Antiplant Shell 
Abjuration 
Level: Drd 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 10 ft. 
Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on 
you 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The antiplant shell spell creates an invisible, 
mobile barrier that keeps all creatures 
within the shell protected from attacks by 
plant creatures or animated plants. As with 
many abjuration spells, forcing the barrier 
against creatures that the spell keeps at bay 
strains and collapses the field (see Abjura-
tion, page 172). 
 
Arcane Eye 
Divination (Scrying) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Unlimited 
Effect: Magical sensor 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You create an invisible magical sensor that 
sends you visual information. You can 
create the arcane eye  at any point you can 
see, but it can then travel outside your line 
of sight without hindrance. An arcane eye  
travels at 30 feet per round (300 feet per 
minute) if viewing an area ahead as a 
human would (primarily looking at the 
floor) or 10 feet per round (100 feet per 
minute) if examining the ceiling and walls 
as well as the floor ahead. It sees exactly as 
you would see if you were there. The eye 
can travel in any direction as long as the 
spell lasts. Solid barriers block its passage, 
but it can pass through a hole or space as 
small as 1 inch in diameter. The eye can’t 
enter another plane of existence, even 
through a gate or similar magical portal. 
You must concentrate to use an arcane 
eye. If you do not concentrate, the eye is 
inert until you again concentrate. 
Material Component: A bit of bat fur. 
 
Arcane Lock 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: The door, chest, or portal touched, 
up to 30 sq. ft./level in size 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 