 
 201
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
An arcane lock spell cast upon a door, chest, 
or portal magically locks it. You can freely 
pass your own arcane lock without affecting 
it; otherwise, a door or object secured with 
this spell can be opened only by breaking 
in or with a successful dispel magic or knock 
spell. Add 10 to the normal DC to break 
open a door or portal affected by this spell. 
(A knock spell does not remove an arcane 
lock; it only suppresses the effect for 10 
minutes.) 
Material Component:  Gold dust worth 25 
gp. 
 
Arcane Mark 
Universal 
Level: Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: One personal rune or mark, all of 
which must fit within 1 sq. ft. 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell allows you to inscribe your per-
sonal rune or mark, which can consist of 
no more than six characters. The writing 
can be visible or invisible. An arcane mark  
spell enables you to etch the rune upon 
any substance (even stone or metal) with-
out harm to the material upon which it is 
placed. If an invisible mark is made, a detect 
magic spell causes it to glow and be visible, 
though not necessarily understandable. See 
invisibility, true seeing , a gem of seeing , or a 
robe of eyes  likewise allows the user to see 
an invisible arcane mark. A read magic spell 
reveals the words, if any. The mark cannot 
be dispelled, but it can be removed by the 
caster or by an erase spell. If an arcane mark 
is placed on a living being, normal wear 
gradually causes the effect to fade in about 
a month. 
Arcane mark  m u s t  b e  c a s t  o n  a n  o b j e c t  
prior to casting Drawmij’s instant summons  
on the same object (see that spell descrip-
tion for details). 
 
Arcane Sight 
Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
 
This spell makes your eyes glow blue and 
allows you to see magical auras within 120 
feet of you. The effect is similar to that of a 
detect magic  spell, but arcane sight  does not 
require concentration and discerns aura 
location and power more quickly. 
You know the location and power of all 
magical auras within your sight. An aura’s 
power depends on a spell’s functioning 
level or an item’s caster level, as noted in 
the description of the detect magic  spell 
(page 219). If the items or creatures bear-
ing the auras are in line of sight, you can 
make Spellcraft skill checks to determine 
the school of magic involved in each. 
(Make one check per aura; DC 15 + spell 
level, or 15 + one-half caster level for a 
nonspell effect.) 
If you concentrate on a specific creature 
within 120 feet of you as a standard action, 
you can determine whether it has any 
spellcasting or spell-like abilities, whether 
these are arcane or divine (spell-like 
abilities register as arcane), and the 
strength of the most powerful spell or 
spell-like ability the creature currently has 
available for use. In some cases, arcane sight 
may give a deceptively low reading—for 
example, when you use it on a spellcaster 
who has used up most of his or her daily 
spell allotment. 
Arcane sight  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 
 
Arcane Sight, Greater 
Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
 
This spell functions like arcane sight, except 
that you automatically know which spells 
or magical effects are active upon any 
individual or object you see. 
Greater arcane sight  doesn’t let you iden-
tify magic items. 
Unlike arcane sight , this spell cannot be 
made permanent with a permanency spell. 
 
Astral Projection 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9, Travel 9 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 30 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Targets: You plus one additional willing 
creature touched per two caster levels 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
By freeing your spirit from your physical 
body, this spell allows you to project an 
astral body onto another plane altogether. 
You can bring the astral forms of other 
willing creatures with you, provided that 
these subjects are linked in a circle with 
you at the time of the casting. These fellow 
travelers are dependent upon you and 
must accompany you at all times. If 
something happens to you during the 
journey, your companions are stranded 
wherever you left them. 
You project your astral self onto the 
Astral Plane, leaving your physical body 
behind on the Material Plane in a state of 
suspended animation. The spell projects an 
astral copy of you and all you wear or carry 
onto the Astral Plane. Since the Astral 
Plane touches upon other planes, you can 
travel astrally to any of these other planes 
as you will. To enter one, you leave the 
Astral Plane, forming a new physical body 
(and equipment) on the plane of existence 
you have chosen to enter. 
While you are on the Astral Plane, your 
astral body is connected at all times to your 
physical body by a silvery cord. If the cord 
is broken, you are killed, astrally and phys-
ically. Luckily, very few things can destroy 
a silver cord (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide 
for more information). When a second 
body is formed on a different plane, the 
incorporeal silvery cord remains invisibly 
attached to the new body. If the second 
body or the astral form is slain, the cord 
simply returns to your body where it rests 
on the Material Plane, thereby reviving it 
from its state of suspended animation. 
Although astral projections are able to 
function on the Astral Plane, their actions 
affect only creatures existing on the Astral 
Plane; a physical body must be material-
ized on other planes. 
You and your companions may travel 
through the Astral Plane indefinitely. Your 
bodies simply wait behind in a state of 
suspended animation until you choose to 
return your spirits to them. The spell lasts 
until you desire to end it, or until it is 
terminated by some outside means, such as 
dispel magic cast upon either the physical 
body or the astral form, the breaking of the 
silver cord, or the destruction of your body 
back on the Material Plane (which kills 
you). 
Material Component:  A jacinth worth at 
least 1,000 gp, plus a silver bar worth 5 gp 
for each person to be affected. 
 
Atonement 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 5, Drd 5 
Components: V, S, M, F, DF, XP 
Casting Time: 1 hour 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell removes the burden of evil acts 
or misdeeds from the subject. The creature 
seeking atonement must be truly 
repentant and desirous of setting right its 
misdeeds. If the atoning creature com-
mitted the evil act unwittingly or under 
some form of compulsion, atonement 
ope r ate s nor m ally  at no cost to y ou. How-
ever, in the case of a creature atoning for 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 