 
 202 
deliberate misdeeds and acts of a knowing 
and willful nature, you must intercede 
with your deity (requiring you to expend 
500 XP) in order to expunge the subject’s 
burden. Many casters first assign a subject 
of this sort a quest (see geas/quest) or 
similar penance to determine whether the 
creature is truly contrite before casting the 
atonement spell on its behalf. 
Atonement may be cast for one of several 
purposes, depending on the version 
selected. 
Reverse Magical Alignment Change:  If a 
creature has had its alignment magically 
changed, atonement returns its alignment 
to its original status at no cost in experi-
ence points. 
Restore Class: A paladin who has lost her 
class features due to committing an evil act 
may have her paladinhood restored to her 
by this spell. 
Restore Cleric or Druid Spell Powers:  A 
cleric or druid who has lost the ability to 
cast spells by incurring the anger of his or 
her deity may regain that ability by seek-
ing atonement from another cleric of the 
same deity or another druid. If the trans-
gression was intentional, the casting cleric 
loses 500 XP for his intercession. If the 
transgression was unintentional, he does 
not lose XP. 
Redemption or Temptation:  You may cast 
this spell upon a creature of an opposing 
alignment in order to offer it a chance to 
change its alignment to match yours. The 
prospective subject must be present for the 
entire casting process. Upon completion of 
the spell, the subject freely chooses 
whether it retains its original alignment or 
acquiesces to your offer and changes to 
your alignment. No duress, compulsion, or 
magical influence can force the subject to 
take advantage of the opportunity offered 
if it is unwilling to abandon its old 
alignment. This use of the spell does not 
work on outsiders or any creature 
incapable of changing its alignment 
naturally. 
Though the spell description refers to 
evil acts, atonement can also be used on any 
creature that has performed acts against its 
alignment, whether those acts are evil, 
good, chaotic, or lawful. 
Note: Normally, changing alignment is 
up to the player (for PCs) or the DM (for 
NPCs). This use of atonement simply offers 
a believable way for a character to change 
his or her alignment drastically, suddenly, 
and definitively. 
Material Component: Burning incense. 
Focus: In addition to your holy symbol or 
normal divine focus, you need a set of 
prayer beads (or other prayer device, such 
as a prayer wheel or prayer book) worth at 
least 500 gp. 
 
XP Cost:  When cast for the benefit of a 
creature whose guilt was the result of 
deliberate acts, the cost to you is 500 XP 
per casting (see above). 
 
Augury 
Divination 
Level: Clr 2 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: Instantaneous 
 
An augury can tell you whether a particular 
action will bring good or bad results for 
you in the immediate future. For example, 
if a character is considering destroying a 
weird seal that closes a portal, an augury 
might determine whether that act is a good 
idea. 
The base chance for receiving a mean-
ingful reply is 70% + 1% per caster level, to 
a maximum of 90%; the DM makes the roll 
secretly. The DM may determine that a 
question is so straightforward that a suc-
cessful result is automatic, or so vague as to 
have no chance of success. If the augury 
succeeds, you get one of four results: 
/rhombus4 Weal (if the action will probably bring 
good results). 
/rhombus4 Woe (for bad results). 
/rhombus4 Weal and woe (for both). 
/rhombus4 Nothing (for actions that don’t have 
especially good or bad results). 
 
If the spell fails, you get the “nothing” 
result. A cleric who gets the “nothing” 
result has no way to tell whether it was the 
consequence of a failed or successful 
augury. 
The augury can see into the future only 
about half an hour, so anything that might 
happen after that does not affect the result. 
Thus, the result might not take into 
account the long-term consequences of a 
contemplated action. All auguries cast by 
the same person about the same topic use 
the same dice result as the first casting. 
Material Component:  Incense worth at 
least 25 gp. 
Focus: A set of marked sticks, bones, or 
similar tokens of at least 25 gp value. 
 
Awaken 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 5 
Components: V, S, DF, XP 
Casting Time: 24 hours 
Range: Touch 
Target: Animal or tree touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You awaken a tree or animal to humanlike 
sentience. To succeed, you must make a 
Will save (DC 10 + the animal’s current 
HD, or the HD the tree will have once 
awakened). 
The awakened animal  or tree is friendly 
toward you. You have no special empathy 
or connection with a creature you awaken, 
although it serves you in specific tasks or 
endeavors if you communicate your 
desires to it. 
An awakened tree has characteristics as if 
it were an animated object (see the Monster 
Manual), except that it gains the plant type 
and its Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma scores are each 3d6. An awakened 
plant gains the ability to move its limbs, 
roots, vines, creepers, and so forth, and it 
has senses similar to a human’s. 
An awakened animal gets 3d6 Intel-
ligence, +1d3 Charisma, and +2 HD. Its 
type becomes magical beast (augmented 
animal). An awakened animal can’t serve as 
an animal companion, familiar, or special 
mount. 
An awakened tree or animal can speak 
one language that you know, plus one 
additional language that you know per 
point of Intelligence bonus (if any). 
XP Cost: 250 XP. 
 
Baleful Polymorph 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates, Will 
partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
As polymorph, except that you change the 
subject into a Small or smaller animal of no 
more than 1 HD (such as a dog, lizard, 
monkey, or toad). If the new form would 
prove fatal to the creature (for example, if 
you polymorphed a landbound target into 
a fish, or a flying target into a toad) the 
subject gets a +4 bonus on the save. 
If the spell succeeds, the subject must 
also make a Will save. If this second save 
fails, the creature loses its extraordinary, 
supernatural, and spell-like abilities, loses 
its ability to cast spells (if it had the ability), 
and gains the alignment, special abilities, 
and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
scores of its new form in place of its own. 
It still retains its class and level (or HD), as 
well as all benefits deriving therefrom 
(such as base attack bonus, base save 
bonuses, and hit points). It retains any 
class features (other than spellcasting) that 
aren’t extraordinary, supernatural, or spell-
like abilities. 
Incorporeal or gaseous creatures are 
immune to being polymorphed, and a crea-
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 