 
 204 
This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except that the hand can interpose 
itself, push, or crush one opponent that 
you select. 
The crushing hand  can grapple an oppo-
nent like Bigby’s grasping hand  does. Its 
grapple bonus equals your caster level + 
your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma 
modifier (for a wizard, cleric, or sorcerer, 
respectively), +12 for the hand’s Strength 
score (35), +4 for being Large. The hand 
deals 2d6+12 points of damage (lethal, not 
nonlethal) on each successful grapple 
check against an opponent. 
The crushing hand  can also interpose 
itself as Bigby’s interposing hand  does, or it 
can bull rush an opponent as Bigby’s forceful 
hand does, but at a +18 bonus. 
Directing the spell to a new target is a 
move action. 
Clerics who cast this spell name it for 
their deities— St. Cuthbert’s crushing hand , 
for example. 
Arcane Material Component:  The shell of 
an egg. 
Arcane Focus: A glove of snakeskin. 
 
Bigby’s Forceful Hand 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, F 
 
This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except that the forceful hand  pursues 
and pushes away the opponent that you 
designate. Treat this attack as a bull rush 
with a +14 bonus on the Strength check 
(+8 for Strength 27, +4 for being Large, and 
a +2 bonus for charging, which it always 
gets). The hand always moves with the 
opponent to push that target back the full 
distance allowed, and it has no speed limit. 
Directing the spell to a new target is a 
move action. 
A very strong creature could not push 
the hand out of its way because the latter 
would instantly reposition itself between 
the creature and you, but an opponent 
could push the hand up against you by 
successfully bull rushing it. 
Focus: A sturdy glove made of leather or 
heavy cloth. 
 
Bigby’s Grasping Hand 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Strength 7 
Components: V, S, F/DF 
 
This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except the hand can also grapple one 
opponent that you select. The grasping 
hand gets one grapple attack per round. Its 
attack bonus to make contact equals your 
caster level + your Intelligence, Wisdom, 
or Charisma modifier (for wizards, clerics, 
and sorcerers, respectively), +10 for the 
hand’s Strength score (31), –1 for being 
Large. Its grapple bonus is this same figure, 
except with a +4 modifier for being Large 
instead of –1. The hand holds but does not 
harm creatures it grapples. Directing the 
spell to a new target is a move action. 
The grasping hand  can also bull rush an 
opponent as Bigby’s forceful hand does, but at 
a +16 bonus on the Strength check (+10 for 
Strength 35, +4 for being Large, and a +2 
bonus for charging, which it always gets), 
or interpose itself as Bigby’s interposing hand 
does. 
Clerics who cast this spell name it for 
their deities— Kord’s grasping hand , for 
example. 
Arcane Focus: A leather glove. 
 
Bigby’s Interposing Hand 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: 10-ft. hand 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Bigby’s Interposing hand  creates a Large 
magic hand that appears between you and 
one opponent. This floating, disembodied 
hand then moves to remain between the 
two of you, regardless of where you move 
or how the opponent tries to get around it, 
providing cover (+4 AC) for you against 
that opponent. Nothing can fool the 
hand—it sticks with the selected oppo-
nent in spite of darkness, invisibility, 
polymorphing, or any other attempt at 
hiding or disguise. The hand does not 
pursue an opponent, however. 
A Bigby’s hand  is 10 feet long and about 
that wide with its fingers outstretched. It 
has as many hit points as you do when 
you’re undamaged, and its AC is 20 (–1 
size, +11 natural). It takes damage as a 
normal creature, but most magical effects 
that don’t cause damage do not affect it. 
The hand never provokes attacks of op-
portunity from opponents. It cannot push 
through a wall of force or enter an antimagic 
field, but it suffers the full effect of a 
prismatic wall  or prismatic sphere . The hand 
makes saving throws as its caster. 
Disintegrate or a successful dispel magic  
destroys it. 
Any creature weighing 2,000 pounds or 
less that tries to push past the hand is 
slowed to half its normal speed. The hand 
cannot reduce the speed of a creature 
weighing more than 2,000 pounds, but it 
still affects the creature’s attacks. 
Directing the spell to a new target is a 
move action. 
Focus: A soft glove. 
 
Binding 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: One minute 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: See text (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A binding spell creates a magical restraint 
to hold a creature. The target gets an initial 
saving throw only if its Hit Dice equal at 
least one-half your caster level. 
You may have as many as six assistants 
help you with the spell. For each assistant 
who casts suggestion, your caster level for 
this casting of binding increases by 1. For 
each assistant who casts dominate animal , 
dominate person , or dominate monster , your 
caster level for this casting of binding 
increases by a number equal to one-third 
of that assistant’s level, provided that the 
spell’s target is appropriate for a binding 
spell. Since the assistants’ spells are cast 
simply to improve your caster level for the 
purpose of the binding spell, saving throws 
and spell resistance against the assistants’ 
spells are irrelevant. Your caster level 
determines whether the target gets an 
initial Will saving throw and how long the 
binding lasts. All binding spells are dis-
missible. 
Regardless of the version of binding you 
cast, you can specify triggering conditions 
that end the spell and release the creature 
whenever they occur. These triggers can 
be as simple or elaborate as you desire, but 
the DM must agree that the condition is 
reasonable and has a likelihood of coming 
to pass. The conditions can be based on a 
creature’s name, identity, or alignment but 
otherwise must be based on observable 
actions or qualities. Intangibles such as 
level, class, Hit Dice, or hit points don’t 
qualify. For example, a bound creature can 
be released when a lawful good creature 
approaches, but not when a paladin 
approaches. Once the spell is cast, its 
triggering conditions cannot be changed. 
Setting a release condition increases the 
save DC (assuming a saving throw is 
allowed) by 2. 
If you are casting any of the first three 
versions of binding (those with limited 
durations), you may cast additional binding 
spells to prolong the effect, since the 
durations overlap. If you do so, the target 
gets a saving throw at the end of the first 
spell’s duration, even if your caster level 
was high enough to disallow an initial 
saving throw. If the creature succeeds on 
this save, all the binding spells it has 
received are broken. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 