 
 208 
dealt to a calmed creature immediately 
breaks the spell on all calmed creatures. 
This spell automatically suppresses (but 
does not dispel) any morale bonuses 
granted by spells such as bless, good hope , 
and rage, as well as negating a bard’s ability 
to inspire courage or a barbarian’s rage 
ability. It also suppresses any fear effects 
and removes the confused condition from 
all targets. While the spell lasts, a sup-
pressed spell or effect has no effect. When 
the calm emotions  spell ends, the original 
spell or effect takes hold of the creature 
again, provided that its duration has not 
expired in the meantime. 
 
Cat’s Grace 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The transmuted creature becomes more 
graceful, agile, and coordinated. The spell 
grants a +4 enhancement bonus to Dex-
terity, adding the usual benefits to AC, 
Reflex saves, and other uses of the Dex-
terity modifier. 
Material Component: A pinch of cat fur. 
 
Cat’s Grace, Mass 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
 
This spell functions like cat’s grace , except 
that it affects multiple creatures. 
 
Cause Fear 
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Death 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature with 5 or 
fewer HD 
Duration: 1d4 rounds or 1 round; see text 
Saving Throw: Will partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The affected creature becomes frightened. 
If the subject succeeds on a Will save, it is 
shaken for 1 round. Creatures with 6 or 
more Hit Dice are immune to this effect. 
Cause fear  counters and dispels remove 
fear. 
 
Chain Lightning 
Evocation [Electricity] 
Level: Air 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Targets: One primary target, plus one 
secondary target/level (each of which 
must be within 30 ft. of the primary 
target) 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Reflex half 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell creates an electrical discharge 
that begins as a single stroke commencing 
from your fingertips. Unlike lightning bolt , 
chain lightning  strikes one object or 
creature initially, then arcs to other targets. 
The bolt deals 1d6 points of electricity 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d6) 
to the primary target. After it strikes, 
lightning can arc to a number of secondary 
targets equal to your caster level (max-
imum 20). The secondary bolts each strike 
one target and deal half as much damage as 
the primary one did (rounded down). For 
example, a 19th-level sorcerer generates a 
primary bolt (19d6 points of damage) and 
as many as nineteen secondary bolts (each 
of which deals half as much as the primary 
bolt dealt). Each target can attempt a 
Reflex saving throw for half damage. You 
choose secondary targets as you like, but 
they must all be within 30 feet of the 
primary target, and no target can be struck 
more than once. You can choose to affect 
fewer secondary targets than the max-
imum (to avoid allies in the area, for 
example). 
Focus: A bit of fur; a piece of amber, glass, 
or a crystal rod; plus one silver pin for each 
of your caster levels. 
 
Changestaff 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 7 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Touch 
Target: Your touched staff 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You change a specially prepared quarter-
staff into a Huge treantlike creature, about 
24 feet tall. When you plant the end of the 
staff in the ground and speak a special 
command to conclude the casting of the 
spell, your staff turns into a creature that 
looks and fights just like a treant (see the 
Monster Manual ). The staff-treant defends 
you and obeys any spoken commands. 
However, it is by no means a true treant; it 
cannot converse with actual treants or 
control trees. If the staff-treant is reduced 
to 0 or fewer hit points, it crumbles to 
powder and the staff is destroyed. 
Otherwise, the staff returns to its normal 
form when the spell duration expires (or 
when the spell is dismissed), and it can be 
used as the focus for another casting of the 
spell. The staff-treant is always at full 
strength when created, despite any 
wounds it may have incurred the last time 
it appeared. 
Focus: The quarterstaff, which must be 
specially prepared. The staff must be a 
sound limb cut from an ash, oak, or yew, 
then cured, shaped, carved, and polished (a 
process requiring twenty-eight days). You 
cannot adventure or engage in other 
strenuous activity during the shaping and 
carving of the staff. 
 
Chaos Hammer 
Evocation [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius burst 
Duration: Instantaneous (1d6 rounds); see 
text 
Saving Throw: Will partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You unleash chaotic power to smite your 
enemies. The power takes the form of a 
multicolored explosion of leaping, rico-
cheting energy. Only lawful and neutral 
(not chaotic) creatures are harmed by the 
spell. 
The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per 
two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to lawful 
creatures (or 1d6 points of damage per 
caster level, maximum 10d6, to lawful 
outsiders) and slows them for 1d6 rounds. 
A slowed creature can take only a single 
standard action or move action on each of 
its turns, plus free actions as normal. In 
addition, it takes a –2 penalty to AC, attack 
rolls, damage rolls, and Reflex saves. A suc-
cessful Will save reduces the damage by 
half and negates the slow effect. 
The spell deals only half damage against 
creatures who are neither lawful nor 
chaotic, and they are not slowed. Such a 
creature can reduce the damage by half 
again (down to one-quarter) with a suc-
cessful Will save. 
 
Charm Animal 
Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 
Target: One animal 
 
This spell functions like charm person , 
except that it affects a creature of the 
animal type. See the Monster Manual  for 
more information on creature types. 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 