 
 210 
that enables you to hear or see (your 
choice) almost as if you were there. You 
don’t need line of sight or line of effect, 
but the locale must be known—a place 
familiar to you or an obvious one, such as 
behind a door, around a corner, or in a 
grove of trees. Once you have selected the 
locale, the sensor doesn’t move, but you 
can rotate it in all directions to view the 
area as desired. Unlike other scrying spells, 
this spell does not allow magically or 
supernaturally enhanced senses to work 
through it. If the chosen locale is magically 
dark, you see nothing. If it is naturally 
pitch black, you can see in a 10- foot radius 
around the center of the spell’s effect. 
Clairaudience/clairvoyance functions only 
on the plane of existence you are currently 
occupying. 
Arcane Focus:  A small horn (for hearing) 
or a glass eye (for seeing). 
 
Cloak of Chaos 
Abjuration [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 8, Clr 8 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 20 ft. 
Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.-
radius burst centered on you 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
A random pattern of color surrounds the 
subjects, protecting them from attacks, 
granting them resistance to spells cast by 
lawful creatures, and causing lawful crea-
tures that strike the subjects to become 
confused. This abjuration has four effects. 
First, each warded creature gains a +4 
deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance 
bonus on saves. Unlike protection from law , 
the benefit of this spell applies against all 
attacks, not just against attacks by lawful 
creatures. 
Second, each warded creature gains 
spell resistance 25 against lawful spells and 
spells cast by lawful creatures. 
Third, the abjuration blocks possession 
and mental influence, just as protection from 
law does. 
Finally, if a lawful creature succeeds on 
a melee attack against a warded creature, 
the offending attacker is confused for 1 
round (Will save negates, as with the con-
fusion spell, but against the save DC of cloak 
of chaos). 
Focus: A tiny reliquary containing some 
sacred relic, such as a scrap of parchment 
from a chaotic text. The reliquary costs at 
least 500 gp. 
 
Clone 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: One clone 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell makes an inert duplicate of a 
creature. If the original individual has 
been slain, its soul immediately transfers 
to the clone, creating a replacement (pro-
vided that the soul is free and willing to 
return; see Bringing Back the Dead, page 
171). The original’s physical remains, 
should they still exist, become inert and 
cannot thereafter be restored to life. If the 
original creature has reached the end of its 
natural life span (that is, it has died of 
natural causes), any cloning attempt fails. 
To create the duplicate, you must have a 
piece of flesh (not hair, nails, scales, or the 
like) with a volume of at least 1 cubic inch 
that was taken from the original creature’s 
living body. The piece of flesh need not be 
fresh, but it must be kept from rotting (for 
example, by the gentle repose  spell). Once 
the spell is cast, the duplicate must be 
grown in a laboratory for 2d4 months. 
When the clone is completed, the origi-
nal’s soul enters it immediately, if that 
creature is already dead. The clone is phys-
ically identical with the original and pos-
sesses the same personality and memories 
as the original. In other respects, treat the 
clone as if it were the original character 
raised from the dead, including the loss of 
one level or 2 points of Constitution (if the 
original was a 1st-level character). If this 
Constitution adjustment would give the 
clone a Constitution score of 0, the spell 
fails. If the original creature has lost levels 
since the flesh sample was taken and died 
at a lower level than the clone would oth-
erwise be, the clone is one level below the 
level at which the original died. 
The spell duplicates only the original’s 
body and mind, not its equipment. 
A duplicate can be grown while the 
original still lives, or when the original 
soul is unavailable, but the resulting body 
is merely a soulless bit of inert flesh, which 
rots if not preserved. 
Material Component:  The piece of flesh 
and various laboratory supplies (cost 1,000 
gp). 
Focus: Special laboratory equipment 
(cost 500 gp). 
 
Cloudkill 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Cloud spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. 
high 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell generates a bank of fog, similar 
to a fog cloud, except that its vapors are yel-
lowish green and poisonous. These vapors 
automatically kill any living creature with 
3 or fewer HD (no save). A living creature 
with 4 to 6 HD is slain unless it succeeds 
on a Fortitude save (in which case it takes 
1d4 points of Constitution damage on your 
turn each round while in the cloud). A 
living creature with 6 or more HD takes 
1d4 points of Constitution damage on your 
turn each round while in the cloud (a 
successful Fortitude save halves this 
damage). Holding one’s breath doesn’t 
help, but creatures immune to poison are 
unaffected by the spell. 
Unlike a fog cloud , the cloudkill moves 
away from you at 10 feet per round, rolling 
along the surface of the ground. Figure out 
the cloud’s new spread each round based 
on its new point of origin, which is 10 feet 
farther away from the point of origin 
where you cast the spell. 
Because the vapors are heavier than air, 
they sink to the lowest level of the land, 
even pouring down den or sinkhole open-
ings; thus, the spell is ideal for slaying 
hives of giant ants, for example. It cannot 
penetrate liquids, nor can it be cast under-
water. 
 
Color Spray 
Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 15 ft. 
Area: Cone-shaped burst 
Duration: Instantaneous; see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A vivid cone of clashing colors springs 
forth from your hand, causing creatures to 
become stunned, perhaps also blinded, and 
possibly knocking them unconscious. 
Each creature within the cone is affected 
according to its Hit Dice. 
2 HD or less: The creature is unconscious, 
blinded, and stunned for 2d4 rounds, then 
blinded and stunned for 1d4 rounds, and 
then stunned for 1 round. (Only living 
creatures are knocked unconscious.) 
3 or 4 HD:  The creature is blinded and 
stunned for 1d4 rounds, then stunned for 1 
round. 
5 or more HD: The creature is stunned for 
1 round. 
Sightless creatures are not affected by 
color spray. 
Material Component:  A pinch each of 
powder or sand that is colored red, yellow, 
and blue. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 