 
 223
Dispel Law 
Abjuration [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 5, Clr 5 
 
This spell functions like dispel evil , except 
that you are surrounded by flickering, 
yellow, chaotic energy, and the spell af-
fects lawful creatures and spells rather 
than evil ones. 
 
Dispel Magic 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Drd 4, Magic 3, Pal 3, 
Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target or Area: One spellcaster, creature, 
or object; or 20-ft.-radius burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Because magic is so powerful, so too is the 
ability to dispel magic. You can use dispel 
magic to end ongoing spells that have been 
cast on a creature or object, to temporarily 
suppress the magical abilities of a magic 
item, to end ongoing spells (or at least 
their effects) within an area, or to counter 
another spellcaster’s spell. A dispelled spell 
ends as if its duration had expired. Some 
spells, as detailed in their descriptions, 
can’t be defeated by dispel magic . Dispel 
magic can dispel (but not counter) spell-
like effects just as it does spells. 
Note: The effect of a spell with an in-
stantaneous duration can’t be dispelled, 
because the magical effect is already over 
before the dispel magic  can take effect. 
Thus, you can’t use dispel magic  to repair 
damage caused by a fireball or to turn a 
petrified character back to flesh. In these 
cases, the magic has departed, leaving only 
burned flesh or perfectly normal stone in 
its wake. 
You choose to use dispel magic in one of 
three ways: a targeted dispel, an area dispel, 
or a counterspell: 
Targeted Dispel:  One object, creature, or 
spell is the target of the dispel magic  spell. 
You make a dispel check (1d20 + your 
caster level, maximum +10) against the 
spell or against each ongoing spell 
currently in effect on the object or 
creature. The DC for this dispel check is 11 
+ the spell’s caster level. 
For example, Mialee, at 5th level, targets 
dispel magic  on a drow who is under the 
effects of haste, mage armor , and bull’s 
strength. All three spells were cast on the 
drow by a 7th-level wizard. Mialee makes a 
dispel check (1d20 + 5 against DC 18) three 
times, once each for the haste, mage armor, 
and bull’s strength effects. If she succeeds on 
a particular check, that spell is dispelled 
(the drow’s spell resistance doesn’t help 
him); if she fails, that spell remains in 
effect. 
If you target an object or creature that is 
the effect of an ongoing spell (such as a 
monster summoned by monster summon-
ing), you make a dispel check to end the 
spell that conjured the object or creature. 
If the object that you target is a magic 
item, you make a dispel check against the 
item’s caster level. If you succeed, all the 
item’s magical properties are suppressed 
for 1d4 rounds, after which the item 
recovers on its own. A suppressed item 
becomes nonmagical for the duration of 
the effect. An interdimensional interface 
(such as a bag of holding ) is temporarily 
closed. A magic item’s physical properties 
are unchanged: A suppressed magic sword 
is still a sword (a masterwork sword, in 
fact). Artifacts and deities are unaffected by 
mortal magic such as this. 
You automatically succeed on your 
dispel check against any spell that you cast 
yourself. 
Area Dispel: When dispel magic is used in 
this way, the spell affects everything 
within a 30-foot radius. 
For each creature within the area that is 
the subject of one or more spells, you make 
a dispel check against the spell with the 
highest caster level. If that check fails, you 
make dispel checks against progressively 
weaker spells until you dispel one spell 
(which discharges the dispel magic spell so 
far as that target is concerned) or until you 
fail all your checks. The creature’s magic 
items are not affected. 
For each object within the area that is 
the target of one or more spells, you make 
dispel checks as with creatures. Magic 
items are not affected by an area dispel. 
For each ongoing area or effect spell 
whose point of origin is within the area of 
the dispel magic spell, you can make a dispel 
check to dispel the spell. 
For each ongoing spell whose area 
overlaps that of the dispel magic  spell, you 
can make a dispel check to end the effect, 
but only within the overlapping area. 
If an object or creature that is the effect 
of an ongoing spell (such as a monster 
summoned by monster summoning) is in the 
area, you can make a dispel check to end 
the spell that conjured that object or 
creature (returning it whence it came) in 
addition to attempting to dispel spells 
targeting the creature or object. 
You may choose to automatically suc-
ceed on dispel checks against any spell that 
you have cast. 
Counterspell: When dispel magic is used in 
this way, the spell targets a spellcaster and 
is cast as a counterspell (page 170). Unlike 
a true counterspell, however, dispel magic  
may not work; you must make a dispel 
check to counter the other spellcaster’s 
spell. 
 
Dispel Magic, Greater 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 5, Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
 
This spell functions like dispel magic , 
except that the maximum caster level on 
your dispel check is +20 instead of +10. 
Additionally, greater dispel magic  has a 
chance to dispel any effect that remove curse 
can remove, even if dispel magic can’t dispel 
that effect. 
 
Displacement 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
Emulating the natural ability of the dis-
placer beast (see the Monster Manual ), the 
subject of this spell appears to be about 2 
feet away from its true location. The crea-
ture benefits from a 50% miss chance as if 
it had total concealment. However, unlike 
actual total concealment, displacement does 
not prevent enemies from targeting the 
creature normally. True seeing  reveals its 
true location. 
Material Component:  A small strip of 
leather made from displacer beast hide, 
twisted into a loop. 
 
Disrupt Undead 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You direct a ray of positive energy. You 
must make a ranged touch attack to hit, 
and if the ray hits an undead creature, it 
deals 1d6 points of damage to it. 
 
Disrupting Weapon 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: One melee weapon 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object); see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 