 
 226 
fall down. Fissures open in the earth, and 
every creature on the ground has a 25% 
chance to fall into one (Reflex DC 20 to 
avoid a fissure). At the end of the spell, all 
fissures grind shut, killing any creatures 
still trapped within. 
Structure: Any structure standing on 
open ground takes 100 points of damage, 
enough to collapse a typical wooden or 
masonry building, but not a structure built 
of stone or reinforced masonry. Hardness 
does not reduce this damage, nor is it 
halved as damage dealt to objects normally 
is (See the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for 
information on hit points for walls and the 
like.) Any creature caught inside a 
collapsing structure takes 8d6 points of 
bludgeoning damage (Reflex DC 15 half ) 
and is pinned beneath the rubble (see 
below). 
River, Lake, or Marsh:  Fissures open 
underneath the water, draining away the 
water from that area and forming muddy 
ground. Soggy marsh or swampland 
becomes quicksand for the duration of the 
spell, sucking down creatures and 
structures. Each creature in the area must 
make a DC 15 Reflex save or sink down in 
the mud and quicksand. At the end of the 
spell, the rest of the body of water rushes 
in to replace the drained water, possibly 
drowning those caught in the mud. 
Pinned beneath Rubble:  Any creature 
pinned beneath rubble takes 1d6 points of 
nonlethal damage per minute while 
pinned. If a pinned character falls uncon-
scious, he or she must make a DC 15 
Constitution check or take 1d6 points of 
lethal damage each minute thereafter until 
freed or dead. 
 
Elemental Swarm 
Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
Level: Air 9, Drd 9, Earth 9, Fire 9, 
Water 9 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Two or more summoned creatures, 
no two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell opens a portal to an Elemental 
Plane and summons elementals from it. A 
druid can choose the plane (Air, Earth, 
Fire, or Water); a cleric opens a portal to 
the plane matching his domain. 
When the spell is complete, 2d4 Large 
elementals appear. Ten minutes later, 1d4 
Huge elementals appear. Ten minutes after 
that, one greater elemental appears. Each 
elemental has maximum hit points per 
HD. Once these creatures appear, they 
serve you for the duration of the spell. 
The elementals obey you explicitly and 
never attack you, even if someone else 
manages to gain control over them. You do 
not need to concentrate to maintain 
control over the elementals. You can dis-
miss them singly or in groups at any time. 
When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, earth, fire, or water crea-
ture, it is a spell of that type. For example, 
elemental swarm  is a fire spell when you 
cast it to summon fire elementals and a 
water spell when you use it to summon 
water elementals. 
 
Endure Elements 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 1, Drd 1, Pal 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1, 
Sun 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 24 hours 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
A creature protected by endure elements  
suffers no harm from being in a hot or cold 
environment. It can exist comfortably in 
conditions between –50 and 140 degrees 
Fahrenheit without having to make 
Fortitude saves (as described in the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide ). The creature’s 
equipment is likewise protected. 
Endure elements doesn’t provide any pro-
tection from fire or cold damage, nor does 
it protect against other environmental 
hazards such as smoke, lack of air, and so 
forth. 
 
Energy Drain 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial; see text 
for enervation 
 
This spell functions like enervation, except 
that the creature struck gains 2d4 negative 
levels, and the negative levels last longer. 
There is no saving throw to avoid gain-
ing the negative levels, but 24 hours after 
gaining them, the subject must make a 
Fortitude saving throw (DC = energy drain  
spell’s save DC) for each negative level. If 
the save succeeds, that negative level is 
removed. If it fails, the negative level also 
goes away, but one of the subject’s charac-
ter levels is permanently drained. 
An undead creature struck by the ray 
gains 2d4×5 temporary hit points for 1 
hour. 
 
Enervation 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray of negative energy 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You point your finger and utter the incan-
tation, releasing a black ray of crackling 
negative energy that suppresses the life 
force of any living creature it strikes. You 
must make a ranged touch attack to hit. If 
the attack succeeds, the subject gains 1d4 
negative levels. 
If the subject has at least as many nega-
tive levels as HD, it dies. Each negative 
level gives a creature a –1 penalty on attack 
rolls, saving throws, skill checks, ability 
checks, and effective level (for deter-
mining the power, duration, DC, and other 
details of spells or special abilities). 
Additionally, a spellcaster loses one spell 
or spell slot from his or her highest avail-
able level. Negative levels stack. 
Assuming the subject survives, it re-
gains lost levels after a number of hours 
equal to your caster level (maximum 15 
hours). Usually, negative levels have a 
chance of permanently draining the 
victim’s levels, but the negative levels from 
enervation don’t last long enough to do so. 
An undead creature struck by the ray 
gains 1d4×5 temporary hit points for 1 
hour. 
 
Enlarge Person 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1, Strength 1 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One humanoid creature 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell causes instant growth of a hu-
manoid creature, doubling its height and 
multiplying its weight by 8. This increase 
changes the creature’s size category to the 
next larger one. The target gains a +2 size 
bonus to Strength, a –2 size penalty to 
Dexterity (to a minimum of 1), and a –1 
penalty on attack rolls and AC due to its 
increased size. 
A humanoid creature whose size in-
creases to Large has a space of 10 feet and a 
natural reach of 10 feet. This spell does not 
change the target’s speed. 
If insufficient room is available for the 
desired growth, the creature attains the 
maximum possible size and may make a 
Strength check (using its increased 
Strength) to burst any enclosures in the 
process. If it fails, it is constrained without 
harm by the materials enclosing it—the 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 