 
 228 
you are in a place called the Ethereal Plane, 
which overlaps the normal, physical, 
Material Plane. When the spell expires, 
you return to material existence. 
An ethereal creature is invisible, insub-
stantial, and capable of moving in any 
direction, even up or down, albeit at half 
normal speed. As an insubstantial creature, 
you can move through solid objects, 
including living creatures. An ethereal 
creature can see and hear on the Material 
Plane, but everything looks gray and 
ephemeral. Sight and hearing onto the 
Material Plane are limited to 60 feet. Force 
effects (such as magic missile  and wall of 
force) and abjurations affect an ethereal 
creature normally. Their effects extend 
onto the Ethereal Plane from the Material 
Plane, but not vice versa. An ethereal 
creature can’t attack material creatures, and 
spells you cast while ethereal affect only 
other ethereal things. Certain material 
creatures or objects have attacks or effects 
that work on the Ethereal Plane (such as a 
basilisk’s gaze attack). Treat other ethereal 
creatures and ethereal objects as if they 
were material.  
If you end the spell and become mate-
rial while inside a material object (such as a 
solid wall), you are shunted off to the 
nearest open space and take 1d6 points of 
damage per 5 feet that you so travel. 
 
Etherealness 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Range: Touch; see text 
Targets: You and one other touched 
creature per three levels 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell functions like ethereal jaunt , 
except that you and other willing creatures 
joined by linked hands (along with their 
equipment) become ethereal. Besides 
yourself, you can bring one creature per 
three caster levels to the Ethereal Plane. 
Once ethereal, the subjects need not stay 
together. 
When the spell expires, all affected 
creatures on the Ethereal Plane return to 
material existence. 
 
Evard’s Black Tentacles 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius spread 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell conjures a field of rubbery black 
tentacles, each 10 feet long. These waving 
members seem to spring forth from the 
earth, floor, or whatever surface is 
underfoot—including water. They grasp 
and entwine around creatures that enter 
the area, holding them fast and crushing 
them with great strength. 
Every creature within the area of the 
spell must make a grapple check, opposed 
by the grapple check of the tentacles. Treat 
the tentacles attacking a particular target as 
a Large creature with a base attack bonus 
equal to your caster level and a Strength 
score of 19. Thus, its grapple check modi-
fier is equal to your caster level +8. The ten-
tacles are immune to all types of damage. 
Once the tentacles grapple an opponent, 
they may make a grapple check each round 
on your turn to deal 1d6+4 points of 
bludgeoning damage. The tentacles 
continue to crush the opponent until the 
spell ends or the opponent escapes. 
Any creature that enters the area of the 
spell is immediately attacked by the ten-
tacles. Even creatures who aren’t grappling 
with the tentacles may move through the 
area at only half normal speed. 
Material Component:  A piece of tentacle 
from a giant octopus or a giant squid. 
 
Expeditious Retreat 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
 
This spell increases your base land speed 
by 30 feet. (This adjustment is treated as an 
enhancement bonus.) There is no effect on 
other modes of movement, such as burrow, 
climb, fly, or swim. As with any effect that 
increases your speed, this spell affects your 
jumping distance (see the Jump skill, page 
77). 
T h i s  s p e l l  n e e d  n o t  b e  u s e d  a s  p a r t  o f  a  
retreat; the name of the spell merely hints 
at the typical wizard’s attitude towards 
combat. 
 
Explosive Runes 
Abjuration [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: One touched object weighing no 
more than 10 lb. 
Duration: Permanent until discharged (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You trace these mystic runes upon a book, 
map, scroll, or similar object bearing writ-
ten information. The runes detonate when 
read, dealing 6d6 points of force damage. 
Anyone next to the runes (close enough to 
read them) takes the full damage with no 
saving throw; any other creature within 10 
feet of the runes is entitled to a Reflex save 
for half damage. The object on which the 
runes were written also takes full damage 
(no saving throw). 
You and any characters you specifically 
instruct can read the protected writing 
without triggering the runes. Likewise, you 
can remove the runes whenever desired. 
Another creature can remove them with a 
successful dispel magic  or erase spell, but 
attempting to dispel or erase the runes and 
failing to do so triggers the explosion. 
Note: Magic traps such as explosive runes  
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find the 
runes and Disable Device to thwart them. 
The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, or 
28 for explosive runes. 
 
Eyebite 
Necromancy [Evil] 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 round per three levels; see 
text 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Each round, you may target a single living 
creature, striking it with waves of evil 
power. Depending on the target’s HD, this 
attack has as many as three effects. 
 
HD Effect 
10 or more Sickened 
5–9 Panicked, sickened 
4 or less Comatose, panicked, 
 sickened  
 
The effects are cumulative and concurrent. 
Sickened: Sudden pain and fever sweeps 
over the subject’s body. A sickened crea-
ture takes a –2 penalty on attack rolls, 
weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill 
checks, and ability checks. A creature 
affected by this spell remains sickened for 
10 minutes per caster level. The effects 
cannot be negated by a remove disease  or 
heal spell, but a remove curse is effective. 
Panicked: The subject becomes panicked 
for 1d4 rounds. Even after the panic ends, 
the creature remains shaken for 10 
minutes per caster level, and it automati-
cally becomes panicked again if it comes 
within sight of you during that time. This 
is a fear effect. 
Comatose: The subject falls into a cata-
tonic coma for 10 minutes per caster level. 
During this time, it cannot be awakened by 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 