 
 236 
Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
 
Your speech becomes fluent and more 
believable. You gain a +30 bonus on Bluff 
checks made to convince another of the 
truth of your words. (This bonus doesn’t 
apply to other uses of the Bluff skill, such 
as feinting in combat, creating a diversion 
to hide, or communicating a hidden mes-
sage via innuendo.) 
If a divination is attempted against you 
that would detect your lies or force you to 
speak the truth (such as discern lies or zone of 
truth), the caster of the divination must 
succeed on a caster level check (1d20 + 
caster level) against a DC of 15 + your 
caster level to succeed. Failure means the 
divination does not detect your lies or 
force you to speak only the truth. 
 
Glitterdust 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Creatures and objects within 10-ft.-
radius spread 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (blinding 
only) 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
A cloud of golden particles covers every-
one and everything in the area, causing 
creatures to become blinded and visibly 
outlining invisible things for the duration 
of the spell. All within the area are covered 
by the dust, which cannot be removed and 
continues to sparkle until it fades. 
Any creature covered by the dust takes a 
–40 penalty on Hide checks. 
Material Component: Ground mica. 
 
Globe of Invulnerability 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
 
This spell functions like lesser globe of 
invulnerability, except that it also excludes 
4th-level spells and spell-like effects. 
 
Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 10 ft. 
Area: 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, 
centered on you 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
An immobile, faintly shimmering magical 
sphere surrounds you and excludes all 
spell effects of 3rd level or lower. The area 
or effect of any such spells does not 
include the area of the lesser globe of 
invulnerability. Such spells fail to affect any 
target located within the globe. Excluded 
effects include spell-like abilities and spells 
or spell-like effects from items. However, 
any type of spell can be cast through or out 
of the magical globe. Spells of 4th level and 
higher are not affected by the globe, nor 
are spells already in effect when the globe 
is cast. The globe can be brought down by 
a targeted dispel magic  spell, but not by an 
area dispel magic. You can leave and return 
to the globe without penalty. 
Note that spell effects are not disrupted 
unless their effects enter the globe, and 
even then they are merely suppressed, not 
dispelled. For example, creatures inside 
the globe would still see a mirror image  
created by a caster outside the globe. If that 
caster then entered the globe, the images 
would wink out, to reappear when the 
caster exited the globe. Likewise, a caster 
standing in the area of a light spell would 
still receive sufficient illumination for 
vision, even though that part of the light 
spell’s area that lies within the globe would 
not be luminous. 
If a given spell has more than one level 
depending on which character class is 
casting it, use the level appropriate to the 
caster to determine whether lesser globe of 
invulnerability stops it. 
Material Component:  A glass or crystal 
bead that shatters at the expiration of the 
spell. 
 
Glyph of Warding 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 3 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Target or Area: Object touched or up to 5 
sq. ft./level 
Duration: Permanent until discharged 
(D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No (object) and Yes; see 
text 
 
This powerful inscription harms those 
who enter, pass, or open the warded area or 
object. A glyph of warding  can guard a 
bridge or passage, ward a portal, trap a 
chest or box, and so on. 
You set the conditions of the ward. Typ-
ically, any creature entering the warded 
area or opening the warded object without 
speaking a password (which you set when 
casting the spell) is subject to the magic it 
stores. Alternatively or in addition to a 
password trigger, glyphs can be set 
according to physical characteristics (such 
as height or weight) or creature type, 
subtype, or kind (such as aberration, drow, 
or red dragon). Glyphs can also be set with 
respect to good, evil, law, or chaos, or to 
pass those of your religion. They cannot be 
set according to class, Hit Dice, or level. 
Glyphs respond to invisible creatures 
normally but are not triggered by those 
who travel past them ethereally. Multiple 
glyphs cannot be cast on the same area. 
However, if a cabinet has three drawers, 
each can be separately warded. 
When casting the spell, you weave a 
tracery of faintly glowing lines around the 
warding sigil. A glyph can be placed to 
conform to any shape up to the limitations 
of your total square footage. When the 
spell is completed, the glyph and tracery 
become nearly invisible. 
Glyphs cannot be affected or bypassed by 
such means as physical or magical probing, 
though they can be dispelled. Mislead, poly-
morph, and nondetection (and similar magi-
cal effects) can fool a glyph, though non-
magical disguises and the like can’t. 
Read magic allows you to identify a glyph 
of warding  with a DC 13 Spellcraft check. 
Identifying the glyph does not discharge it 
and allows you to know the basic nature of 
the glyph (version, type of damage caused, 
what spell is stored). 
The DM may decide that the exact glyphs 
available to you depend on your deity. He 
or she might also make new glyphs avail-
able according to the magical research 
rules in the Dungeon Master’s Guide. 
Note: Magic traps such as glyph of 
warding are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to 
find the glyph and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell 
level, or 28 for glyph of warding. 
Depending on the version selected, a 
glyph either blasts the intruder or activates 
a spell. 
Blast Glyph: A blast glyph deals 1d8 points 
of damage per two caster levels (maximum 
5d8) to the intruder and to all within 5 feet 
of him or her. This damage is acid, cold, 
fire, electricity, or sonic (caster’s choice, 
made at time of casting). Each creature 
affected can attempt a Reflex save to take 
half damage. Spell resistance applies 
against this effect. 
Spell Glyph:  You can store any harmful 
spell of 3rd level or lower that you know. 
All level-dependent features of the spell 
are based on your caster level at the time of 
casting the glyph. If the spell has a target, it 
targets the intruder. If the spell has an area 
or an amorphous effect (such as a cloud), 
the area or effect is centered on the 
intruder. If the spell summons creatures, 
they appear as close as possible to the 
intruder and attack. Saving throws and 
spell resistance operate as normal, except 
that the DC is based on the level of the 
spell stored in the glyph. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 