 
 245
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You summon a number of swarms of 
locusts (one per three levels, to a maxi-
mum of six swarms at 18th level). The 
swarms must be summoned so that each 
one is adjacent to at least one other swarm 
(that is, the swarms must fill one contigu-
ous area). You may summon the locust 
swarms so that they share the area of other 
creatures. Each swarm attacks any 
creatures occupying its area. The swarms 
are stationary after being summoned, and 
won’t pursue creatures that flee. 
See the Monster Manual  for details on 
locust swarms. 
 
Invisibility 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Trickery 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or touch 
Target: You or a creature or object weigh-
ing no more than 100 lb./level 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) or 
Will negates (harmless, object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) or Yes 
(harmless, object) 
 
The creature or object touched becomes 
invisible, vanishing from sight, even from 
darkvision. If the recipient is a creature 
carrying gear, that vanishes, too. If you cast 
the spell on someone else, neither you nor 
your allies can see the subject, unless you 
can normally see invisible things or you 
employ magic to do so. 
Items dropped or put down by an in-
visible creature become visible; items 
picked up disappear if tucked into the 
clothing or pouches worn by the creature. 
Light, however, never becomes invisible, 
although a source of light can become so 
(thus, the effect is that of a light with no 
visible source). Any part of an item that the 
subject carries but that extends more than 
10 feet from it becomes visible, such as a 
trailing rope. 
Of course, the subject is not magically 
silenced, and certain other conditions can 
render the recipient detectable (such as 
stepping in a puddle). The spell ends if the 
subject attacks any creature. For purposes 
of this spell, an attack includes any spell 
targeting a foe or whose area or effect 
includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe 
depends on the invisible character’s per-
ceptions.) Actions directed at unattended 
objects do not break the spell. Causing 
harm indirectly is not an attack. Thus, an 
invisible being can open doors, talk, eat, 
climb stairs, summon monsters and have 
them attack, cut the ropes holding a rope 
bridge while enemies are on the bridge, 
remotely trigger traps, open a portcullis to 
release attack dogs, and so forth. If the 
subject attacks directly, however, it im-
mediately becomes visible along with all 
its gear. Spells such as bless that specifically 
affect allies but not foes are not attacks for 
this purpose, even when they include foes 
in their area. 
See Table 8–5: Attack Roll Modifiers 
and Table 8–6: Armor Class Modifiers, 
page 151, for the effects of invisibility on 
combat. 
Invisibility can be made permanent (on 
objects only) with a permanency spell. 
Arcane Material Component:  An eyelash 
encased in a bit of gum arabic. 
 
Invisibility, Greater 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 
Target: You or creature touched 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
 
This spell functions like invisibility, except 
that it doesn’t end if the subject attacks. 
 
Invisibility, Mass 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Targets: Any number of creatures, no two 
of which can be more than 180 ft. apart 
 
This spell functions like invisibility, except 
that the effect is mobile with the group 
and is broken when anyone in the group 
attacks. Individuals in the group cannot 
see each other. The spell is broken for any 
individual who moves more than 180 feet 
from the nearest member of the group. (If 
only two individuals are affected, the one 
moving away from the other one loses its 
invisibility. If both are moving away from 
each other, they both become visible when 
the distance between them exceeds 180 
feet.) 
Material Component:  An eyelash encased 
in a bit of gum arabic. 
 
Invisibility Purge 
Evocation 
Level: Clr 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
 
You surround yourself with a sphere of 
power with a radius of 5 feet per caster 
level that negates all forms of invisibility. 
Anything invisible becomes visible while 
in the area. 
Invisibility Sphere 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M 
Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation around the 
creature or object touched 
 
This spell functions like invisibility, except 
that this spell confers invisibility upon all 
creatures within 10 feet of the recipient. 
The center of the effect is mobile with the 
recipient. 
Those affected by this spell can see each 
other and themselves as if unaffected by 
the spell. Any affected creature moving out 
of the area becomes visible, but creatures 
moving into the area after the spell is cast 
do not become invisible. Affected crea-
tures (other than the recipient) who attack 
negate the invisibility only for themselves. 
If the spell recipient attacks, the invisibility 
sphere ends. 
 
Iron Body 
Transmutation 
Level: Earth 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
 
This spell transforms your body into living 
iron, which grants you several powerful 
resistances and abilities. 
You gain damage reduction 15/adaman-
tine. You are immune to blindness, critical 
hits, ability score damage, deafness, dis-
ease, drowning, electricity, poison, stun-
ning, and all spells or attacks that affect 
your physiology or respiration, because 
you have no physiology or respiration 
while this spell is in effect. You take only 
half damage from acid and fire of all kinds. 
However, you also become vulnerable to 
all special attacks that affect iron golems. 
You gain a +6 enhancement bonus to 
your Strength score, but you take a –6 
penalty to Dexterity as well (to a minimum 
Dexterity score of 1), and your speed is 
reduced to half normal. You have an arcane 
spell failure chance of 50% and a –8 armor 
check penalty, just as if you were clad in 
full plate armor. You cannot drink (and 
thus can’t use potions) or play wind instru-
ments. 
Your unarmed attacks deal damage 
equal to a club sized for you (1d4 for Small 
characters or 1d6 for Medium characters), 
and you are considered armed when 
making unarmed attacks. 
Your weight increases by a factor of ten, 
causing you to sink in water like a stone. 
However, you could survive the crushing 
pressure and lack of air at the bottom of 
the ocean—at least until the spell duration 
expires. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 