 
 246 
Arcane Material Component: A small piece 
of iron that was once part of either an iron 
golem, a hero’s armor, or a war machine. 
 
Ironwood 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 6 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 minute/lb. created 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: An ironwood object weighing up to 
5 lb./level 
Duration: One day/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Ironwood is a magical substance created by 
druids from normal wood. While re-
maining natural wood in almost every way, 
ironwood is as strong, heavy, and resistant 
to fire as steel. Spells that affect metal or 
iron (such as heat metal) do not function on 
ironwood. Spells that affect wood (such as 
wood shape ) do affect ironwood, although 
ironwood does not burn. Using this spell 
with wood shape  or a wood-related Craft 
check, you can fashion wooden items that 
function as steel items. Thus, wooden plate 
armor and wooden swords can be created 
that are as durable as their normal steel 
counterparts. These items are freely usable 
by druids. 
Further, if you make only half as much 
ironwood as the spell would normally allow, 
any weapon, shield, or suit of armor so 
created is treated as a magic item with a +1 
enhancement bonus. 
Material Component:  Wood shaped into 
the form of the intended ironwood object. 
 
Jump 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
The subject gets a +10 enhancement bonus 
on Jump checks. The enhancement bonus 
increases to +20 at caster level 5th, and to 
+30 (the maximum) at caster level 9th. 
Material Component:  A grasshopper’s 
hind leg, which you break when the spell 
is cast. 
 
Keen Edge 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: One weapon or fifty projectiles, 
all of which must be in contact with 
each other at the time of casting 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
 
This spell makes a weapon magically keen, 
improving its ability to deal telling blows. 
This transmutation doubles the threat 
range of the weapon. A threat range of 20 
becomes 19–20, a threat range of 19–20 
becomes 17–20, and a threat range of 18–
20 becomes 15–20. The spell can be cast 
only on piercing or slashing weapons. If 
cast on arrows or crossbow bolts, the keen 
edge on a particular projectile ends after 
one use, whether or not the missile strikes 
its intended target. (Treat shuriken as 
arrows, rather than as thrown weapons, for 
the purpose of this spell.) 
Multiple effects that increase a weapon’s 
threat range (such as the keen edge spell and 
the Improved Critical feat) don’t stack. You 
can’t cast this spell on a natural weapon, 
such as a claw. 
 
Knock 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One door, box, or chest with an 
area of up to 10 sq. ft./level 
Duration: Instantaneous; see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
The knock spell opens stuck, barred, 
locked, held, or arcane locked doors. It opens 
secret doors, as well as locked or trick-
opening boxes or chests. It also loosens 
welds, shackles, or chains (provided they 
serve to hold closures shut). If used to 
open a arcane locked door, the spell does not 
remove the arcane lock but simply suspends 
its functioning for 10 minutes. In all other 
cases, the door does not relock itself or 
become stuck again on its own. Knock does 
not raise barred gates or similar impedi-
ments (such as a portcullis), nor does it 
affect ropes, vines, and the like. The effect 
is limited by the area. A 3rd-level caster can 
cast a knock spell on a door of 30 square feet 
or less (for example, a standard 4-foot-by-7-
foot door). Each spell can undo as many as 
two means of preventing egress. Thus if a 
door is locked, barred, and held, or 
quadruple locked, opening it requires two 
knock spells. 
 
Know Direction 
Divination 
Level: Brd 0, Drd 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: Instantaneous 
 
You instantly know the direction of north 
from your current position. The spell is 
effective in any environment in which 
“north” exists, but it may not work in 
extraplanar settings. Your knowledge of 
north is correct at the moment of casting, 
but you can get lost again within moments 
if you don’t find some external reference 
point to help you keep track of direction. 
 
Legend Lore 
Divination 
Level: Brd 4, Knowledge 7, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: See text 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: See text 
 
Legend lore  brings to your mind legends 
about an important person, place, or thing. 
If the person or thing is at hand, or if you 
are in the place in question, the casting 
time is only 1d4×10 minutes. If you have 
only detailed information on the person, 
place, or thing, the casting time is 1d10 
days, and the resulting lore is less complete 
and specific (though it often provides 
enough information to help you find the 
person, place, or thing, thus allowing a 
better legend lore  result next time). If you 
know only rumors, the casting time is 2d6 
weeks, and the resulting lore is vague and 
incomplete (though it often directs you to 
more detailed information, thus allowing a 
better legend lore result next time). 
During the casting, you cannot engage 
in other than routine activities: eating, 
sleeping, and so forth. When completed, 
the divination brings legends (if any) 
about the person, place, or things to your 
mind. These may be legends that are still 
current, legends that have been forgotten, 
or even information that has never been 
generally known. If the person, place, or 
thing is not of legendary importance, you 
gain no information. As a rule of thumb, 
characters who are 11th level and higher 
are “legendary,” as are the sorts of creatures 
they contend with, the major magic items 
they wield, and the places where they 
perform their key deeds. 
Examples of legend lore  results include 
the following. 
A divination about a mysterious magic 
axe you have at hand: “Woe to the evildoer 
whose hand touches the axe, for even the 
haft chops the hand of the evil ones. Only 
a true Son or Daughter of Stone, one who 
loves Moradin and whom Moradin loves, 
may awaken the true powers of the axe, 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 