 
 247
and only with the sacred word ‘ Rudnogg’ on 
the lips.” 
A divination about a legendary paladin 
about whom you know many details: 
“Vanashon has been denied the glory of 
death and the duty of life. He waits pa-
tiently beneath the Forbidden Mountain.” 
(The paladin has been turned to stone in 
the caverns under the mountain.) 
A divination about ancient ruins about 
which you have only a passing reference in 
a partially damaged tome: “The sorcerer 
who called herself Ryth built a library 
without words and a temple without gods. 
Those tho read and those who pray tore it 
down in a night and a day.” (These clues 
may be enough for you to find out more 
and get details you need to cast a better 
legend lore.) 
Material Component:  Incense worth at 
least 250 gp. 
Focus: Four strips of ivory (worth 50 gp 
each) formed into a rectangle. 
 
Leomund’s Secret Chest 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: See text 
Target: One chest and up to 1 cu. ft. of 
goods/caster level 
Duration: Sixty days or until discharged 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You hide a chest on the Ethereal Plane for 
as long as sixty days and can retrieve it at 
will. The chest can contain up to 1 cubic 
foot of material per caster level (regardless 
of the chest’s actual size, which is about 3 
feet by 2 feet by 2 feet). If any living 
creatures are in the chest, there is a 75% 
chance that the spell simply fails. Once the 
chest is hidden, you can retrieve it by 
concentrating (a standard action), and it 
appears next to you. 
The chest must be exceptionally well 
crafted and expensive, constructed for you 
by master crafters. If made principally of 
wood, it must be ebony, rosewood, sandal-
wood, teak, or the like, and all of its corner 
fittings, nails, and hardware must be plat-
inum. If constructed of ivory, the metal 
fittings of the chest must be gold. If the 
chest is fashioned from bronze, copper, or 
silver, its fittings must be silver or 
electrum (a valuable metal). The cost of 
such a chest is never less than 5,000 gp. 
Once it is constructed, you must make a 
tiny replica (of the same materials and 
perfect in every detail), so that the 
miniature of the chest appears to be a per-
fect copy. (The replica costs 50 gp.) You 
can have but one pair of these chests at any 
given time—even a wish spell does not 
allow more. The chests are nonmagical and 
can be fitted with locks, wards, and so on, 
just as any normal chest can be. 
To hide the chest, you cast the spell 
while touching both the chest and the 
replica. The chest vanishes into the Ethe-
real Plane. You need the replica to recall 
the chest. After sixty days, there is a 
cumulative chance of 5% per day that the 
chest is irretrievably lost. If the miniature 
of the chest is lost or destroyed, there is no 
way, not even with a wish spell, that the 
large chest can be summoned back, al-
though an extraplanar expedition might be 
mounted to find it. 
Living things in the chest eat, sleep, and 
age normally, and they die if they run out 
of food, air, water, or whatever they need 
to survive. 
Focus: The chest and its replica. 
 
Leomund’s Secure Shelter 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M, F; see text 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: 20-ft.-square structure 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You conjure a sturdy cottage or lodge made 
of material that is common in the area 
where the spell is cast—stone, timber, or 
(at worst) sod. The floor is level, clean, and 
dry. In all respects the lodging resembles a 
normal cottage, with a sturdy door, two 
shuttered windows, and a small fireplace. 
The shelter has no heating or cooling 
source (other than natural insulation 
qualities). Therefore, it must be heated as a 
normal dwelling, and extreme heat ad-
versely affects it and its occupants. The 
dwelling does, however, provide consid-
erable security otherwise—it is as strong as 
a normal stone building, regardless of its 
material composition. The dwelling resists 
flames and fire as if it were stone. It is 
impervious to normal missiles (but not the 
sort cast by siege engines or giants). 
The door, shutters, and even chimney 
are secure against intrusion, the former 
two being arcane locked  and the latter se-
cured by an iron grate at the top and a 
narrow flue. In addition, these three areas 
are protected by an alarm spell. Finally, an 
unseen servant  is conjured to provide ser-
vice to you for the duration of the shelter. 
The secure shelter  contains rude furnish-
ings—eight bunks, a trestle table, eight 
stools, and a writing desk. 
Material Component:  A square chip of 
stone, crushed lime, a few grains of sand, a 
sprinkling of water, and several splinters of 
wood. These must be augmented by the 
components of the unseen servant  spell 
(string and a bit of wood) if this benefit is 
to be included. 
Focus: The focus of the alarm spell (silver 
wire and a tiny bell) if this benefit is to be 
included. 
 
Leomund’s Tiny Hut 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 20 ft. 
Effect: 20-ft.-radius sphere centered on 
your location 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You create an unmoving, opaque sphere of 
force of any color you desire around 
yourself. Half the sphere projects above 
the ground, and the lower hemisphere 
passes through the ground. As many as 
nine other Medium creatures can fit into 
the field with you; they can freely pass into 
and out of the hut without harming it. 
However, if you remove yourself from the 
hut, the spell ends. 
The temperature inside the hut is 70° F 
if the exterior temperature is between 0° 
and 100° F. An exterior temperature below 
0° or above 100° lowers or raises the 
interior temperature on a 1-degree-for-1 
basis (thus, if it’s –20° outside, inside the 
hut it’s 50°). The hut also provides protec-
tion against the elements, such as rain, 
dust, and sandstorms. The hut withstands 
any wind of less than hurricane force, but a 
hurricane (75+ mph wind speed) or greater 
force destroys it. 
The interior of the hut is a hemisphere. 
You can illuminate it dimly upon com-
mand or extinguish the light as desired. 
Although the force field is opaque from 
the outside, it is transparent from within. 
Missiles, weapons, and most spell effects 
can pass through the hut without affecting 
it, although the occupants cannot be seen 
from outside the hut (they have total 
concealment). 
Material Component: A small crystal bead 
that shatters when the spell duration 
expires or the hut is dispelled. 
 
Leomund’s Trap 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V,S,M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Object touched 
Duration: Permanent (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell makes a lock or small 
mechanism seem to be trapped to anyone 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 