 
 248 
who can detect traps. You place the spell 
upon any small mechanism or device, such 
as a lock, hinge, hasp, cork, cap, or ratchet. 
Any character able to detect traps, or who 
uses any spell or device enabling trap 
detection, is 100% certain a real trap exists. 
Of course, the effect is illusory and 
nothing happens if the trap is “sprung”; its 
primary purpose is to frighten away 
thieves or make them waste precious time. 
If another Leomund’s trap is active within 
50 feet when the spell is cast, the casting 
fails. 
Material Component:  A piece of iron 
pyrite touched to the object to the trapped 
while the object is sprinkled with a special 
dust requiring 50gp to prepare. 
 
Lesser (Spell Name) 
Any spell whose name begins with lesser is 
alphabetized in this chapter according to 
the second word of the spell name. Thus, 
the description of a lesser spell appears near 
the description of the spell on which it is 
based. Spell chains that have lesser spells in 
them include those based on the spells 
confusion, geas, globe of invulnerability , planar 
ally, planar binding, and restoration. 
 
Levitate 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 
levels) 
Target: You or one willing creature or one 
object (total weight up to 100 lb./level) 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Levitate allows you to move yourself, an-
other creature, or an object up and down as 
you wish. A creature must be willing to be 
levitated, and an object must be unattended 
or possessed by a willing creature. You can 
mentally direct the recipient to move up or 
down as much as 20 feet each round; doing 
so is a move action. You cannot move the 
recipient horizontally, but the recipient 
could clamber along the face of a cliff, for 
example, or push against a ceiling to move 
laterally (generally at half its base land 
speed). 
A levitating creature that attacks with a 
melee or ranged weapon finds itself in-
creasingly unstable; the first attack has a –1 
penalty on attack rolls, the second –2, and 
so on, to a maximum penalty of –5. A full 
round spent stabilizing allows the creature 
to begin again at –1. 
Focus: Either a small leather loop or a 
piece of golden wire bent into a cup shape 
with a long shank on one end. 
Light 
Evocation [Light] 
Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Object touched 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell causes an object to glow like a 
torch, shedding bright light in a 20-foot-
radius (and dim light for an additional 20 
feet) from the point you touch. The effect 
is immobile, but it can be cast on a mov-
able object. Light taken into an area of 
magical darkness does not function. 
A light spell (one with the light de-
scriptor) counters and dispels a darkness 
spell (one with the darkness descriptor) of 
an equal or lower level. 
Arcane Material Component:  A firefly or a 
piece of phosphorescent moss. 
 
Lightning Bolt 
Evocation [Electricity] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 120 ft. 
Area: 120-ft. line 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Reflex half 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You release a powerful stroke of electrical 
energy that deals 1d6 points of electricity 
damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) 
to each creature within its area. The bolt 
begins at your fingertips. 
The lightning bolt  sets fire to combusti-
bles and damages objects in its path. It can 
melt metals with a low melting point, such 
as lead, gold, copper, silver, or bronze. If 
the damage caused to an interposing bar-
rier shatters or breaks through it, the bolt 
may continue beyond the barrier if the 
spell’s range permits; otherwise, it stops at 
the barrier just as any other spell effect 
does. 
Material Component:  A bit of fur and an 
amber, crystal, or glass rod. 
 
Limited Wish 
Universal 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, XP 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A limited wish  lets you create nearly any 
type of effect. For example, a limited wish  
can do any of the following things. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 
6th level or lower, provided the spell is 
not of a school prohibited to you. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or 
lower, provided the spell is not of a 
school prohibited to you. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 
5th level or lower, even if it’s of a pro-
hibited school. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any other spell of 4th level or 
lower, even if it’s of a prohibited school. 
/rhombus4 Undo the harmful effects of many 
spells, such as geas/quest or insanity. 
/rhombus4 Produce any other effect whose power 
level is in line with the above effects, 
such as a single creature automatically 
hitting on its next attack or taking a –7 
penalty on its next saving throw. 
 
A duplicated spell allows saving throws 
and spell resistance as normal (but the save 
DC is for a 7th-level spell). When a limited 
wish duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, 
you must pay that cost or 300 XP, 
whichever is more. When a limited wish  
spell duplicates a spell with a material 
component that costs more than 1,000 gp, 
you must provide that component. 
XP Cost: 300 XP or more (see above). 
 
Liveoak 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Target: Tree touched 
Duration: One day/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell turns an oak tree into a protector 
or guardian. The spell can be cast on only a 
single tree at a time; while liveoak is in 
effect, you can’t cast it again on another 
tree. The tree on which the spell is cast 
must be within 10 feet of your dwelling 
place, within a place sacred to you, or 
within 300 feet of something that you wish 
to guard or protect. 
Liveoak must be cast on a healthy, Huge 
oak. A triggering phrase of up to one word 
per caster level is placed on the targeted 
oak. For instance, “Attack any persons who 
come near without first saying ‘sacred 
mistletoe’ “ is an eleven-word trigger 
phrase that you could use at 11th level or 
higher. The liveoak spell triggers the tree 
into animating as a treant (see the Monster 
Manual). At the DM’s option, you can 
extrapolate statistics for a smaller tree from 
the treant statistics if you cast likeoak on a 
smaller oak. 
If liveoak is dispelled, the tree takes root 
immediately, wherever it happens to be. If 
released by you, the tree tries to return to 
its original location before taking root. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 