 
 250 
any form of dimensional travel ( astral 
projection, blink, dimension door , etherealness, 
gate, plane shift , shadow walk , teleport, and 
similar abilities) can simply leave the circle 
through that means. You can prevent the 
creature’s extradimensional escape by cast-
ing a dimensional anchor spell on it, but you 
must cast the spell before the creature acts. 
If you are successful, the anchor effect lasts 
as long as the magic circle does. The creature 
cannot reach across the magic circle, but its 
ranged attacks (ranged weapons, spells, 
magical abilities, and the like) can. The 
creature can attack any target it can reach 
with its ranged attacks except for the circle 
itself. 
You can add a special diagram (a two-
dimensional bounded figure with no gaps 
along its circumference, augmented with 
various magical sigils) to make the magic 
circle more secure. Drawing the diagram by 
hand takes 10 minutes and requires a DC 
20 Spellcraft check. The DM makes this 
check secretly. If the check fails, the 
diagram is ineffective. You can take 10 (see 
page 65) when drawing the diagram if you 
are under no particular time pressure to 
complete the task. This task also takes 10 
full minutes. If time is no factor at all, and 
you devote 3 hours and 20 minutes to the 
task, you can take 20. 
A successful diagram allows you to cast a 
dimensional anchor  spell on the magic circle  
during the round before casting any 
summoning spell. The anchor holds any 
called creatures in the magic circle  for 24 
hours per caster level. A creature cannot 
use its spell resistance against a magic circle 
prepared with a diagram, and none of its 
abilities or attacks can cross the diagram. If 
the creature tries a Charisma check to 
break free of the trap (see the lesser planar 
binding spell), the DC increases by 5. The 
creature is immediately released if any-
thing disturbs the diagram—even a straw 
laid across it. However, the creature itself 
cannot disturb the diagram either directly 
or indirectly, as noted above. 
This spell is not cumulative with protec-
tion from evil and vice versa. 
Arcane Material Component:  A little pow-
dered silver with which you trace a 3-foot-
diameter circle on the floor (or ground) 
around the creature to be warded. 
 
Magic Circle against Good 
Abjuration [Evil] 
Level: Clr 3, Evil 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
 
This spell functions like magic circle against 
evil, except that it is similar to protection 
from good instead of protection from evil , and 
it can imprison a nonevil called creature. 
 
Magic Circle against Law 
Abjuration [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
This spell functions like magic circle against 
evil, except that it is similar to protection 
from law  instead of protection from evil , and 
it can imprison a nonchaotic called crea-
ture. 
 
Magic Fang 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
Magic fang gives one natural weapon of the 
subject a +1 enhancement bonus on attack 
and damage rolls. The spell can affect a 
slam attack, fist, bite, or other natural 
weapon. (The spell does not change an 
unarmed strike’s damage from nonlethal 
damage to lethal damage.) 
Magic fang can be made permanent with 
a permanency spell. 
 
Magic Fang, Greater 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 3, Rgr 3 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
 
This spell functions like magic fang, except 
that the enhancement bonus on attack and 
damage rolls is +1 per four caster levels 
(maximum +5). 
Alternatively, you may imbue all of the 
creature’s natural weapons with a +1 en-
hancement bonus (regardless of your cast-
er level). 
Greater magic fang  can be made perma-
nent with a permanency spell. 
 
Magic Jar 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One creature 
Duration: 1 hour/level or until you return 
to your body 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
By casting magic jar, you place your soul in 
a gem or large crystal (known as the magic 
jar), leaving your body lifeless. Then you 
can attempt to take control of a nearby 
body, forcing its soul into the magic jar . 
You may move back to the jar (thereby 
returning the trapped soul to its body) and 
attempt to possess another body. The spell 
ends when you send your soul back to 
your own body, leaving the receptacle 
empty. 
To cast the spell, the magic jar  must be 
within spell range and you must know 
where it is, though you do not need line of 
sight or line of effect to it. When you 
transfer your soul upon casting, your body 
is, as near as anyone can tell, dead.  
While in the magic jar , you can sense 
and attack any life force within 10 feet per 
caster level (and on the same plane of 
existence). You do need line of effect from 
the jar to the creatures. You cannot deter-
mine the exact creature types or positions 
of these creatures. In a group of life forces, 
you can sense a difference of 4 or more Hit 
Dice between one creature and another 
and can determine whether a life force is 
powered by positive or negative energy. 
(Undead creatures are powered by 
negative energy. Only sentient undead 
creatures have, or are, souls.) 
For example, if two 10th-level characters 
are attacking a hill giant (12 HD) and four 
ogres (4 HD), you could determine that 
there are three stronger and four weaker 
life forces within the range, all powered by 
positive energy. You could choose to take 
over either a stronger or a weaker creature, 
but which particular stronger or weaker 
creature you attempt to possess is 
determined randomly. 
Attempting to possess a body is a full-
round action. It is blocked by protection 
from evil or a similar ward. You possess the 
body and force the creature’s soul into the 
magic jar  unless the subject succeeds on a 
Will save. Failure to take over the host 
leaves your life force in the magic jar , and 
the target automatically succeeds on fur-
ther saving throws if you attempt to pos-
sess its body again. 
If you are successful, your life force oc-
cupies the host body, and the host’s life 
force is imprisoned in the magic jar . You 
keep your Intelligence, Wisdom, Cha-
risma, level, class, base attack bonus, base 
save bonuses, alignment, and mental abili-
ties. The body retains its Strength, Dex-
terity, Constitution, hit points, natural abi-
lities, and automatic abilities. For example, 
a fish’s body breathes water and a troll’s 
body regenerates. A body with extra limbs 
does not allow you to make more attacks 
(or more advantageous two-weapon at-
tacks) than normal. You can’t choose to 
activate the body’s extraordinary or super-
natural abilities. The creature’s spells and 
spell-like abilities do not stay with the 
body. 
As a standard action, you can shift freely 
from a host to the magic jar if within range, 
sending the trapped soul back to its body. 
The spell ends when you shift from the jar 
to your own body. 
If the host body is slain, you return to 
the magic jar , if within range, and the life 
force of the host departs (it is dead). If the 
host body is slain beyond the range of the 
spell, both you and the host die. Any life 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 