 
 251
force with nowhere to go is treated as slain. 
If the spell ends while you are in the 
magic jar, you return to your body (or die if 
your body is out of range or destroyed). If 
the spell ends while you are in a host, you 
return to your body (or die, if it is out of 
range of your current position), and the 
soul in the magic jar returns to its body (or 
dies if it is out of range). Destroying the 
receptacle ends the spell, and the spell can 
be dispelled at either the magic jar or at the 
host’s location. 
Focus: A gem or crystal worth at least 100 
gp. 
 
Magic Missile 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: Up to five creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 15 ft. apart 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A missile of magical energy darts forth 
from your fingertip and strikes its target, 
dealing 1d4+1 points of force damage. 
The missile strikes unerringly, even if 
the target is in melee combat or has less 
than total cover or total concealment. Spe-
cific parts of a creature can’t be singled out. 
Inanimate objects are not damaged by the 
spell. 
For every two caster levels beyond 1st, 
you gain an additional missile—two at 3rd 
level, three at 5th, four at 7th, and the 
maximum of five missiles at 9th level or 
higher. If you shoot multiple missiles, you 
can have them strike a single creature or 
several creatures. A single missile can 
strike only one creature. You must desig-
nate targets before you check for spell 
resistance or roll damage. 
 
Magic Mouth 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature or object 
Duration: Permanent until discharged 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 
 
This spell imbues the chosen object or 
creature with an enchanted mouth that 
suddenly appears and speaks its message 
the next time a specified event occurs. The 
message, which must be twenty-five or 
fewer words long, can be in any language 
known by you and can be delivered over a 
period of 10 minutes. The mouth cannot 
utter verbal components, use command 
words, or activate magical effects. It does, 
however, move according to the words 
articulated; if it were placed upon a statue, 
the mouth of the statue would move and 
appear to speak. Of course, magic mouth  
can be placed upon a tree, rock, or any 
other object or creature. 
The spell functions when specific con-
ditions are fulfilled according to your 
command as set in the spell. Commands 
can be as general or as detailed as desired, 
although only visual and audible triggers 
can be used, such as the following: “Speak 
only when a venerable female human car-
rying a sack sits cross-legged within a dis-
tance of one foot.” Triggers react to what 
appears to be the case. Disguises and illu-
sions can fool them. Normal darkness does 
not defeat a visual trigger, but magical 
darkness or invisibility does. Silent 
movement or magical silence defeats audi-
ble triggers. Audible triggers can be keyed 
to general types of noises (footsteps, metal 
clanking) or to a specific noise or spoken 
word (when a pin drops, or when anyone 
says “Boo”). Actions can serve as triggers if 
they are visible or audible. For example, 
“Speak when any creature touches the 
statue” is an acceptable command if the 
creature is visible. A magic mouth  cannot 
distinguish alignment, level, Hit Dice, or 
class except by external garb. 
The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet per 
caster level, so a 6th-level caster can 
command a magic mouth  to respond to 
triggers as far as 90 feet away. Regardless of 
range, the mouth can respond only to 
visible or audible triggers and actions in 
line of sight or within hearing distance. 
Magic mouth  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 
Material Component:  A small bit of 
honeycomb and jade dust worth 10 gp. 
 
Magic Stone 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 1, Drd 1, Earth 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: Up to three pebbles touched 
Duration: 30 minutes or until discharged 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
 
You transmute as many as three pebbles, 
which can be no larger than sling bullets, 
so that they strike with great force when 
t h r o w n  o r  s l u n g .  I f  h u r l e d ,  t h e y  h a v e  a  
range increment of 20 feet. If slung, treat 
them as sling bullets (range increment 50 
feet). The spell gives them a +1 enhance-
ment bonus on attack and damage rolls. 
The user of the stones makes a normal 
ranged attack. Each stone that hits deals 
1d6+1 points of damage (including the 
spell’s enhancement bonus), or 2d6+2 
points against undead. 
 
Magic Vestment 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 3, Strength 3, War 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Armor or shield touched 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
 
You imbue a suit of armor or a shield with 
an enhancement bonus of +1 per four 
caster levels (maximum +5 at 20th level). 
An outfit of regular clothing counts as ar-
mor that grants no AC bonus for the pur-
pose of this spell. 
 
Magic Weapon 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1, War 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Weapon touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
 
Magic weapon  gives a weapon a +1 en-
hancement bonus on attack and damage 
rolls. (An enhancement bonus does not 
stack with a masterwork weapon’s +1 
bonus on attack rolls.) 
You can’t cast this spell on a natural 
weapon, such as an unarmed strike (in-
stead, see magic fang ). A monk’s unarmed 
strike is considered a weapon, and thus it 
can be enhanced by this spell. 
 
Magic Weapon, Greater 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 4, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One weapon or fifty projectiles (all 
of which must be in contact with each 
other at the time of casting) 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 
 
This spell functions like magic weapon , 
except that it gives a weapon an enhance-
ment bonus on attack and damage rolls of 
+1 per four caster levels (maximum +5). 
Alternatively, you can affect as many as 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 