 
 254 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: Unattended, nonmagical object of 
nonliving plant matter, up to 1 cu. 
ft./level 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You create a nonmagical, unattended ob-
ject of nonliving, vegetable matter—linen 
clothes, a hemp rope, a wooden ladder, and 
so forth. The volume of the item created 
cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per caster level. 
You must succeed on an appropriate skill 
check to make a complex item, such as  
Craft (bowmaking) check to make  straight 
arrow shafts. 
Attempting to use any created object as 
a material component causes the spell to 
fail. 
Material Component:  A tiny piece of 
matter of the same sort of item you plan to 
create with minor creation—a bit of twisted 
hemp to create rope, and so forth. 
 
Minor Image 
Illusion (Figment) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Duration: Concentration +2 rounds 
 
This spell functions like silent image, except 
that minor image  includes some minor 
sounds but not understandable speech. 
 
Miracle 
Evocation 
Level: Clr 9, Luck 9 
Components: V, S, XP; see text 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You don’t so much cast a miracle as request 
one. You state what you would like to have 
happen and request that your deity (or the 
power you pray to for spells) intercede. 
The DM then determines the particular 
effect of the miracle. 
A miracle can do any of the following 
things. 
/rhombus4 Duplicate any cleric spell of 8th level or 
lower (including spells to which you 
have access because of your domains).  
/rhombus4 Duplicate any other spell of 7th level or 
lower. 
/rhombus4 Undo the harmful effects of certain 
spells, such as feeblemind or insanity. 
/rhombus4 Have any effect whose power level is in 
line with the above effects. 
 
If the miracle has any of the above effects, 
casting it has no experience point cost. 
Alternatively, a cleric can make a very 
powerful request. Casting such a miracle 
costs the cleric 5,000 XP because of the 
powerful divine energies involved. Ex-
amples of especially powerful miracles of 
this sort could include the following. 
/rhombus4 Swinging the tide of a battle in your 
favor by raising fallen allies to continue 
fighting. 
/rhombus4 Moving you and your allies, with all 
your and their gear, from one plane to 
another through planar barriers to a 
specific locale with no chance of error. 
/rhombus4 Protecting a city from an earthquake, 
volcanic eruption, flood, or other major 
natural disaster. 
 
In any event, a request that is out of line 
with the deity’s (or alignment’s) nature is 
refused. 
A duplicated spell allows saving throws 
and spell resistance as normal, but the save 
DCs are as for a 9th-level spell. When a 
miracle duplicates a spell that has an XP 
cost, you must pay that cost. When a mir-
acle spell duplicates a spell with a material 
component that costs more than 100 gp, 
you must provide that component. 
XP Cost:  5,000 XP (for some uses of the 
miracle spell; see above). 
 
Mirage Arcana 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Area: One 20-ft. cube/level (S) 
Duration: Concentration +1 hour/ 
level (D) 
 
This spell functions like hall ucinatory ter-
rain, except that it enables you to make any 
area appear to be something other than it 
is. The illusion includes audible, visual, tac-
tile, and olfactory elements. Unlike halluci-
natory terrain, the spell can alter the appear-
ance of structures (or add them where 
none are present). Still, it can’t disguise, 
conceal, or add creatures (though creatures 
within the area might hide themselves 
within the illusion just as they can hide 
themselves within a real location). 
 
Mirror Image 
Illusion (Figment) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal; see text 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
 
Several illusory duplicates of you pop into 
being, making it difficult for enemies to 
know which target to attack. The figments 
stay near you and disappear when struck. 
Mirror image creates 1d4 images plus one 
image per three caster levels (maximum 
eight images total). These figments 
separate from you and remain in a cluster, 
each within 5 feet of at least one other fig-
ment or you. You can move into and 
through a mirror image. When you and the 
mirror image  separate, observers can’t use 
vision or hearing to tell which one is you 
and which the image. The figments may 
also move through each other. The fig-
ments mimic your actions, pretending to 
cast spells when you cast a spell, drink 
potions when you drink a potion, levitate 
when you levitate, and so on. 
Enemies attempting to attack you or 
cast spells at you must select from among 
indistinguishable targets. Generally, roll 
randomly to see whether the selected 
target is real or a figment. Any successful 
attack against an image destroys it. An 
image’s AC is 10 + your size modifier + 
your Dex modifier. Figments seem to react 
normally to area spells (such as looking 
like they’re burned or dead after being hit 
by a fireball). 
While moving, you can merge with and 
split off from figments so that enemies 
who have learned which image is real are 
again confounded. 
An attacker must be able to see the 
images to be fooled. If you are invisible or 
an attacker shuts his or her eyes, the spell 
has no effect. (Being unable to see carries 
the same penalties as being blinded.) 
 
Misdirection 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature or object, up to a 10-
ft. cube in size 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates; see 
text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
By means of this spell, you misdirect the 
information from divination spells that 
reveal auras ( detect evil , detect magic , discern 
lies, and the like). On casting the spell, you 
choose another object within range. For 
the duration of the spell, the subject of 
misdirection is detected as if it were the 
other object. (Neither the subject nor the 
other object gets a saving throw against 
this effect.) Detection spells provide in-
formation based on the second object 
rather than on the actual target of the 
detection unless the caster of the detection 
succeeds on a Will save. For instance, you 
could make yourself detect as a tree if one 
were within range at casting: not evil, not 
lying, not magical, neutral in alignment, 
and so forth. This spell does not affect 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 