 
 255
other types of divination magic ( augury, 
detect thoughts , clairaudience/clairvoyance, 
and the like). 
 
Mislead 
Illusion (Figment, Glamer) 
Level: Brd 5, Luck 6, Sor/Wiz 6, 
Trickery 6 
Components: S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target/Effect: You/one illusory double 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) and 
concentration + 3 rounds; see text 
Saving Throw: None or Will disbelief (if 
interacted with); see text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You become invisible (as improved invisi-
bility, a glamer), and at the same time, an 
illusory double of you (as major image , a 
figment) appears. You are then free to go 
elsewhere while your double moves away. 
The double appears within range but 
thereafter moves as you direct it (which 
requires concentration beginning on the 
first round after the casting). You can make 
the figment appear superimposed perfectly 
over your own body so that observers don’t 
notice an image appearing and you turning 
invisible. You and the figment can then 
move in different directions. The double 
moves at your speed and can talk and 
gesture as if it were real, but it cannot 
attack or cast spells, though it can pretend 
to do so. 
The illusory double lasts as long as you 
concentrate upon it, plus 3 additional 
rounds. After you cease concentration, the 
illusory double continues to carry out the 
same activity (for instance, fleeing down a 
hallway) until the duration expires. The 
improved invisibility  lasts for 1 round per 
level, regardless of concentration. 
 
Modify Memory 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 round; see text 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You reach into the subject’s mind and 
modify as many as 5 minutes of its memo-
ries in one of the following ways. 
/rhombus4 Eliminate all memory of an event the 
subject actually experienced. This spell 
cannot negate charm, geas/quest, sugges-
tion, or similar spells. 
/rhombus4 Allow the subject to recall with perfect 
clarity an event it actually experienced. 
For instance, it could recall every word 
from a 5-minute conversation or every 
detail from a passage in a book. 
/rhombus4 Change the details of an event the sub-
ject actually experienced. 
/rhombus4 Implant a memory of an event the sub-
ject never experienced. 
 
Casting the spell takes 1 round. If the sub-
ject fails to save, you proceed with the spell 
by spending as much as 5 minutes (a 
period of time equal to the amount of 
memory time you want to modify) visual-
izing the memory you wish to modify in 
the subject. If your concentration is dis-
turbed before the visualization is complete, 
or if the subject is ever beyond the spell’s 
range during this time, the spell is lost. 
A modified memory does not neces-
sarily affect the subject’s actions, particu-
larly if it contradicts the creature’s natural 
inclinations. An illogical modified mem-
ory, such as the subject recalling how 
much it enjoyed drinking poison, is dis-
missed by the creature as a bad dream or a 
memory muddied by too much wine. 
More useful applications of modify memory 
include implanting memories of friendly 
encounters with you (inclining the subject 
to act favorably toward you), changing the 
details of orders given to the subject by a 
superior, or causing the subject to forget 
that it ever saw you or your party. The DM 
reserves the right to decide whether a 
modified memory is too nonsensical to 
significantly affect the subject. 
 
Moment of Prescience 
Divination 
Level: Luck 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
discharged 
 
This spell grants you a powerful sixth 
sense in relation to yourself. Once during 
the spell’s duration, you may choose to use 
its effect. This spell grants you an insight 
bonus equal to your caster level (maximum 
+25) on any single attack roll, opposed 
ability or skill check, or saving throw. 
Alternatively, you can apply the insight 
bonus to your AC against a single attack 
(even if flat-footed). Activating the effect 
doesn’t take an action; you can even 
activate it on another character’s turn if 
needed. You must choose to use the 
moment of prescience  before you make the 
roll it is to modify. Once used, the spell 
ends. 
You can’t have more than one moment of 
prescience active on you at the same time. 
 
Mordenkainen’s Disjunction 
Abjuration 
Level: Magic 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: All magical effects and magic items 
within a 40-ft.-radius burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
All magical effects and magic items within 
the radius of the spell, except for those that 
y o u  c a r r y  o r  t o u c h ,  a r e  d i s j o i n e d .  T h a t  i s ,  
spells and spell-like effects are separated 
into their individual components (ending 
the effect as a dispel magic spell does), and 
each permanent magic item must make a 
successful Will save or be turned into a 
normal item. An item in a creature’s 
possession uses its own Will save bonus or 
its possessor’s Will save bonus, whichever 
is higher. 
You also have a 1% chance per caster 
level of destroying an antimagic field. If the 
antimagic field  survives the disjunction, no 
items within it are disjoined. 
Even artifacts are subject to disjunction, 
though there is only a 1% chance per caster 
level of actually affecting such powerful 
items. Additionally, if an artifact is des-
troyed, you must make a DC 25 Will save 
or permanently lose all spellcasting abili-
ties. (These abilities cannot be recovered 
by mortal magic, not even miracle or wish.) 
Note: Destroying artifacts is a dangerous 
business, and it is 95% likely to attract the 
attention of some powerful being who has 
an interest in or connection with the 
device. 
 
Mordenkainen’s Faithful Hound 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Phantom watchdog 
Duration: 1 hour/caster level or until 
discharged, then 1 round/caster level; 
see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You conjure up a phantom watchdog that 
is invisible to everyone but yourself. It 
then guards the area where it was conjured 
(it does not move). The hound 
immediately starts barking loudly if any 
Small or larger creature approaches within 
30 feet of it. (Those within 30 feet of the 
hound when it is conjured may move 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 