 
 256 
about in the area, but if they leave and re-
turn, they activate the barking.) The hound 
sees invisible and ethereal creatures. It 
does not react to figments, but it does react 
to shadow illusions. 
If an intruder approaches to within 5 
feet of the hound, the dog stops barking 
and delivers a vicious bite (+10 attack bo-
nus, 2d6+3 points of piercing damage) 
once per round. The dog also gets the bo-
nuses appropriate to an invisible creature. 
The dog is considered ready to bite 
intruders, so it delivers its first bite on the 
intruder’s turn. Its bite is the equivalent of 
a magic weapon for the purpose of damage 
reduction. The hound cannot be attacked, 
but it can be dispelled. 
The spell lasts for 1 hour per caster level, 
but once the hound begins barking, it lasts 
only 1 round per caster level. If you are 
ever more than 100 feet distant from the 
hound, the spell ends. 
Material Component:  A tiny silver whis-
tle, a piece of bone, and a thread. 
 
Mordenkainen’s Lucubration 
Transmutation 
Level: Wiz 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: Instantaneous 
 
You instantly recall any one spell of 5th 
level or lower that you have used during 
the past 24 hours. The spell must have 
been actually cast during that period. The 
recalled spell is stored in your mind as 
through prepared in the normal fashion. If 
the recalled spell requires material 
components, you must provide them. The 
recovered spell is not usable until the 
material components are available. 
 
Mordenkainen’s Magnificent 
Mansion 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Extradimensional mansion, up to 
three 10-ft. cubes/level (S) 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You conjure up an extradimensional 
dwelling that has a single entrance on the 
plane from which the spell was cast. The 
entry point looks like a faint shimmering 
in the air that is 4 feet wide and 8 feet high. 
Only those you designate may enter the 
mansion, and the portal is shut and made 
invisible behind you when you enter. You 
may open it again from your own side at 
will. Once observers have passed beyond 
the entrance, they are in a magnificent 
foyer with numerous chambers beyond. 
The atmosphere is clean, fresh, and warm. 
You can create any floor plan you desire 
to the limit of the spell’s effect. The place is 
furnished and contains sufficient food-
stuffs to serve a nine-course banquet to a 
dozen people per caster level. A staff of 
near-transparent servants (as many as two 
per caster level), liveried and obedient, 
wait upon all who enter. The servants 
function as unseen servant spells except that 
they are visible and can go anywhere in the 
mansion. 
Since the place can be entered only 
through its special portal, outside condi-
tions do not affect the mansion, nor do 
conditions inside it pass to the plane 
beyond. 
Focus: A miniature portal carved from 
ivory, a small piece of polished marble, and 
a tiny silver spoon (each item worth 5 gp). 
 
Mordenkainen’s Private Sanctum 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 30-ft. cube/level (S) 
Duration: 24 hours (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell ensures privacy. Anyone looking 
into the area from outside sees only a dark, 
foggy mass. Darkvision cannot penetrate it. 
No sounds, no matter how loud, can 
escape the area, so nobody can eavesdrop 
from outside. Those inside can see out 
normally. 
Divination (scrying) spells cannot per-
ceive anything within the area, and those 
within are immune to detect thoughts . The 
ward prevents speech between those in-
side and those outside (because it blocks 
sound), but it does not prevent other com-
munication, such as a sending or message 
spell, or telepathic communication, such as 
that between a wizard and her familiar. 
The spell does not prevent creatures or 
objects from moving into and out of the 
area. 
Mordenkainen’s private sanctum  can be 
made permanent with a permanency spell. 
Material Component: A thin sheet of lead, 
a piece of opaque glass, a wad of cotton or 
cloth, and powdered chrysolite. 
 
Mordenkainen’s Sword 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, F 
 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One sword 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell brings into being a shimmering, 
swordlike plane of force. The sword strikes 
at any opponent within its range, as you 
desire, starting in the round that you cast 
the spell. The sword attacks its designated 
target once each round on your turn. Its 
attack bonus is equal to your caster level + 
your Int bonus or your Cha bonus (for 
wizards or sorcerers, respectively) with an 
additional +3 enhancement bonus. As a 
force effect, it can strike ethereal and 
incorporeal creatures. It deals 4d6+3 points 
of force damage, with a threat range of 19–
20 and a critical multiplier of ×2. 
The sword always strikes from your 
direction. It does not get a bonus for 
flanking or help a combatant get one. If 
the sword goes beyond the spell range 
from you, if it goes out of your sight, or if 
you are not directing it, the sword returns 
to you and hovers. 
Each round after the first, you can use a 
standard action to switch the sword to a 
new target. If you do not, the sword con-
tinues to attack the previous round’s target. 
The sword cannot be attacked or harmed 
by physical attacks, but dispel magic , 
disintegrate, a sphere of annihilation , or a rod 
of cancellation  affects it. The sword’s AC is 
13 (10, +0 size bonus for Medium object, 
+3 deflection bonus). 
If an attacked creature has spell resist-
ance, the resistance is checked the first 
time Mordenkainen’s sword  strikes it. If the 
sword is successfully resisted, the spell is 
dispelled. If not, the sword has its normal 
full effect on that creature for the duration 
of the spell. 
Focus: A miniature platinum sword with 
a grip and pommel of copper and zinc. It 
costs 250 gp to construct. 
 
Mount 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One mount 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You summon a light horse or a pony (your 
choice) to serve you as a mount. The steed 
serves willingly and well. The mount 
comes with a bit and bridle and a riding 
saddle. 
Material Component: A bit of horse hair. 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 