 
 261
14th Level: The mount can fly at its speed 
(average maneuverability). 
 
Phase Door 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 8 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: Ethereal 5 ft. by 8 ft. opening, 10 ft. 
deep + 5 ft. deep per three levels 
Duration: One usage per two levels 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell creates an ethereal passage 
through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, 
but not other materials. The phase door  is 
invisible and inaccessible to all creatures 
except you, and only you can use the 
passage. You disappear when you enter the 
phase door and appear when you exit. If you 
desire, you can take one other creature 
(Medium or smaller) through the door. 
This counts as two uses of the door. The 
door does not allow light, sound, or spell 
effects through it, nor can you see through 
it without using it. Thus, the spell can 
provide an escape route, though certain 
creatures, such as phase spiders, can follow 
with ease. A gem of true seeing  or similar 
magic reveals the presence of a phase door  
but does not allow its use. 
A phase door  is subject to dispel magic. If 
anyone is within the passage when it is 
dispelled, he is harmlessly ejected just as if 
he were inside a passwall effect. 
You can allow other creatures to use the 
phase door  by setting some triggering con-
dition for the door. Such conditions can be 
as simple or elaborate as you desire. They 
can be based on a creature’s name, identity, 
or alignment, but otherwise must be based 
on observable actions or qualities. Intan-
gibles such as level, class, Hit Dice, and hit 
points don’t qualify. 
Phase door can be made permanent with 
a permanency spell. 
 
Planar Ally 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar ally] 
Level: Clr 6 
Effect: One or two called elementals or 
outsiders, totaling no more than 12 HD, 
which cannot be more than 30 ft. apart 
when they appear 
 
This spell functions like lesser planar ally , 
except you may call a single creature of 12 
HD or less, or two creatures of the same 
kind whose Hit Dice total no more than 
12. The creatures agree to help you and 
request your return payment together. 
XP Cost: 250 XP. 
 
 
Planar Ally, Greater 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar ally] 
Level: Clr 8 
Effect: Up to three called elementals or 
outsiders, totaling no more than 18 HD, 
no two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart when they appear. 
 
This spell functions like lesser planar ally , 
except that you may call a single creature 
of 18 HD or less, or up to three creatures of 
the same kind whose Hit Dice total no 
more than 18. The creatures agree to help 
you and request your return payment 
together. 
XP Cost: 500 XP. 
 
Planar Ally, Lesser 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text] 
Level: Clr 4 
Components: V, S, DF, XP 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One called elemental or outsider of 
6 HD or less 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
By casting this spell, you request your 
deity to send you an elemental or outsider 
(of 6 HD or less) of the deity’s choice. If 
you serve no particular deity, the spell is a 
general plea answered by a creature shar-
ing your philosophical alignment. If you 
know an individual creature’s name, you 
may request that individual by speaking 
the name during the spell (though you 
might get a different creature anyway). 
You may ask the creature to perform 
one task in exchange for a payment from 
you. Tasks might range from the simple 
(fly us across the chasm, help us fight a 
battle) to the complex (spy on our enemies, 
protect us on our foray into the dungeon). 
You must be able to communicate with the 
creature called in order to bargain for its 
services. 
The creature called requires a payment 
for its services. This payment can take a 
variety of forms, from donating gold or 
magic items to an allied temple, to a gift 
given directly to the creature, to some 
other action on your part that matches the 
creature’s alignment and goals. Regardless, 
this payment must be made before the 
creature agrees to perform any services. 
The bargaining takes at least 1 round, so 
any actions by the creature begin in the 
round after it arrives. 
A task taking up to 1 minute per caster 
level requires a payment of 100 gp per HD 
of the creature called. For a task taking up 
to 1 hour per caster level, the creature 
requires a payment of 500 gp per HD. A 
long-term task, one requiring up to one 
day per caster level, requires a payment of 
1,000 gp per HD. 
A nonhazardous task requires only half 
the indicated payment, while an especially 
hazardous task might require a greater gift. 
Few if any creatures will accept a task that 
seems suicidal (remember, a called 
creature actually dies when it is killed, 
unlike a summoned creature). However, if 
the task is strongly aligned with the crea-
ture’s ethos, the DM may halve or even 
waive the payment. For instance, a celestial 
creature called to battle demons might 
require a gift of only half the normal value. 
At the end of its task, or when the dura-
tion bargained for expires, the creature 
returns to its home plane (after reporting 
back to you, if appropriate and possible). 
Note: When you use a calling spell that 
calls an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, 
lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that 
type. For example, a lesser planar ally  is a 
fire spell when it calls a fire elemental. 
XP Cost: 100 XP. 
 
Planar Binding 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar binding] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S 
Targets: Up to three elementals or 
outsiders, totaling no more than 12 HD, 
no two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart when they appear 
 
This spell functions like lesser planar bind-
ing, except that you may call a single crea-
ture of 12 HD or less, or up to three crea-
tures of the same kind whose Hit Dice 
total no more than 12. Each creature gets a 
save, makes an independent attempt to 
escape, and must be individually per-
suaded to aid you. 
 
Planar Binding, Greater 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar binding] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S 
Targets: Up to three elementals or out-
siders, totaling no more than 18 HD, no 
two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart when they appear. 
 
This spell functions like lesser planar bind-
ing, except that you may call a single crea-
ture of 18 HD or less, or up to three crea-
tures of the same kind whose Hit Dice 
total no more than 18. Each creature gets a 
saving throw, makes independent attempts 
to escape, and must be persuaded to aid 
you individually. 
 
Planar Binding, Lesser 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 