 
 265
effective against a prismatic wall , but the 
caster level check must be repeated for 
each color present. 
Prismatic wall  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell.
 
 
Produce Flame 
Evocation [Fire] 
Level: Drd 1, Fire 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 0 ft. 
Effect: Flame in your palm 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Flames as bright as a torch appear in your 
open hand. The flames harm neither you 
nor your equipment. 
In addition to providing illumination, 
the flames can be hurled or used to touch 
enemies. You can strike an opponent with 
a melee touch attack, dealing fire damage 
equal to 1d6 +1 point per caster level 
(maximum +5). Alternatively, you can hurl 
the flames up to 120 feet as a thrown 
weapon. When doing so, you attack with a 
ranged touch attack (with no range 
penalty) and deal the same damage as with 
the melee attack. No sooner do you hurl 
the flames than a new set appears in your 
hand. Each attack you make reduces the 
remaining duration by 1 minute. If an 
attack reduces the remaining duration to 0 
minutes or less, the spell ends after the 
attack resolves. 
This spell does not function underwater. 
 
Programmed Image 
Illusion (Figment) 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Effect: Visual figment that cannot extend 
beyond a 20-ft. cube + one 10-ft. 
cube/level (S) 
Duration: Permanent until triggered, 
then 1 round/level 
 
This spell functions like silent image, except 
that this spell’s figment activates when a 
specific condition occurs. The figment 
includes visual, auditory, olfactory, and 
thermal elements, including intelligible 
speech. 
You set the triggering condition (which 
may be a special word) when casting the 
spell. The event that triggers the illusion 
can be as general or as specific and detailed 
as desired but must be based on an audible, 
tactile, olfactory, or visual trigger. The 
trigger cannot be based on some quality 
not normally obvious to the senses, such as 
alignment. (See magic mouth  for more 
details about such triggers.) 
Material Component:  A bit of fleece and 
jade dust worth 25 gp. 
 
Project Image 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: One shadow duplicate 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if 
interacted with) 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You tap energy from the Plane of Shadow 
to create a quasi-real, illusory version of 
yourself. The projected image looks, 
sounds, and smells like you but is intan-
gible. The projected image mimics your 
actions (including speech) unless you 
direct it to act differently (which is a move 
action). 
Prismatic Wall 
Color Order Effect of Color Negated By 
Red 1st Stops nonmagical ranged weapons. Cone of cold 
Deals 20 points of fire damage (Reflex half). 
Orange 2nd Stops magical ranged weapons. Gust of wind 
Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half). 
Yellow 3rd Stops poisons, gases, and petrification. Disintegrate 
Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half). 
Green 4th Stops breath weapons. Passwall 
Poison (Kills; Fortitude partial for 1d6 points of Con damage instead). 
Blue 5th Stops divination and mental attacks. Magic missile 
Turned to stone (Fortitude negates). 
Indigo 6th Stops all spells. Daylight 
Will save or become insane (as insanity spell). 
Violet 7th Energy field destroys all objects and effects.1 Dispel magic 
Creatures sent to another plane (Will negates). 
1 The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but these six effects are 
included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at a time, and 
spell resistance might render some colors ineffective (see above). 
Prismatic wall makes an effective barrier.
Illus. by D. Martin 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 