 
 268 
magical abilities for 1d4 hours unless it 
succeeds on a Will save. (Artifacts are 
immune to this effect.) 
 
Rage 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One willing living creature per 
three levels, no two of which may be 
more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: Concentration + 1 
round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
Each affected creature gains a +2 morale 
bonus to Strength and Constitution, a +1 
morale bonus on Will saves, and a –2 
penalty to AC. The effect is otherwise 
identical with a barbarian’s rage (see page 
25), except that the subjects aren’t fatigued 
at the end of the rage. 
 
Rainbow Pattern 
Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V (Brd only), S, M, F; see 
text 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Colorful lights with a 20-ft.- 
radius spread 
Duration: Concentration +1 round/ 
level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
A glowing, rainbow-hued pattern of in-
terweaving colors fascinates those within 
it. Rainbow pattern fascinates a maximum of 
24 Hit Dice of creatures. Creatures with 
the fewest HD are affected first. Among 
creatures with equal HD, those who are 
closest to the spell’s point of origin are 
affected first. An affected creature that fails 
its saves is fascinated by the pattern. 
With a simple gesture (a free action), 
you can make the rainbow pattern move 
up to 30 feet per round (moving its effect-
tive point of origin). All fascinated crea-
tures follow the moving rainbow of light, 
trying to get or remain within the effect. 
Fascinated creatures who are restrained 
and removed from the pattern still try to 
follow it. If the pattern leads its subjects 
into a dangerous area (through flame, off a 
cliff, or the like), each fascinated creature 
gets a second save. If the view of the lights 
is completely blocked (by an obscuring mist 
spell, for instance), creatures who can’t see 
them are no longer affected. 
The spell does not affect sightless crea-
tures. 
Verbal Component:  A wizard or sorcerer 
need not utter a sound to cast this spell, 
but a bard must sing, play music, or recite a 
rhyme as a verbal component. 
Material Component:  A piece of phos-
phor. 
Focus: A crystal prism. 
 
Raise Dead 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 5 
Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Touch 
Target: Dead creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
You restore life to a deceased creature. You 
can raise a creature that has been dead for 
no longer than one day per caster level. In 
addition, the subject’s soul must be free 
and willing to return (see Bringing Back 
the Dead, page 171). If the subject’s soul is 
not willing to return, the spell does not 
work; therefore, a subject that wants to 
return receives no saving throw. 
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. 
The subject of the spell loses one level (or 
1 Hit Die) when it is raised, just as if it had 
lost a level or a Hit Die to an energy-
draining creature. If the subject is 1st level, 
it loses 2 points of Constitution instead (if 
this would reduce its Con to 0 or less, it 
can’t be raised). This level/HD loss or 
Constitution loss cannot be repaired by 
any means. A character who died with 
spells prepared has a 50% chance of losing 
any given spell upon being raised, in 
addition to losing spells for losing a level. 
A spellcasting creature that doesn’t prepare 
spells (such as a sorcerer) has a 50% chance 
of losing any given unused spell slot as if it 
had been used to cast a spell, in addition to 
losing spell slots for losing a level. 
A raised creature has a number of hit 
points equal to its current Hit Dice. Any 
ability scores damaged to 0 are raised to 1. 
Normal poison and normal disease are 
cured in the process of raising the subject, 
but magical diseases and curses are not 
undone. While the spell closes mortal 
wounds and repairs lethal damage of most 
kinds, the body of the creature to be raised 
must be whole. Otherwise, missing parts 
are still missing when the creature is 
brought back to life. None of the dead 
creature’s equipment or possessions are 
affected in any way by this spell. 
A creature who has been turned into an 
undead creature or killed by a death effect 
can’t be raised by this spell. Constructs, ele-
mentals, outsiders, and undead creatures 
can’t be raised. The spell cannot bring back 
a creature that has died of old age. 
Material Component:  Diamonds worth a 
total of least 5,000 gp. 
 
Rary’s Mnemonic Enhancer 
Transmutation 
Level: Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: Instantaneous 
 
Casting this spell allows you to prepare 
additional spells or retain spells recently 
cast. Pick one of these two versions when 
the spell is cast. 
Prepare: You prepare up to three addi-
tional levels of spells (such as three 1st-
level spells, a 2nd- and a 1st-level spell, or a 
3rd-level spell). A cantrip counts as 1/2 
level for this purpose. You prepare and cast 
these spells normally. 
Retain: You retain any spell of 3rd level 
or lower that you had cast up to 1 round 
before you started casting the mnemonic 
enhancer. This restores the previously cast 
spell to your mind. 
In either event, the spell or spells pre-
pared or retained fade after 24 hours (if not 
cast). 
Material Component:  A piece of string, 
and ink consisting of squid secretion with 
black dragon’s blood. 
Focus: An ivory plaque of at least 50 gp 
value. 
 
Rary’s Telepathic Bond 
Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: You plus one willing creature 
per three levels, no two of which can 
be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You forge a telepathic bond among your-
self and a number of willing creatures, 
each of which must have an Intelligence 
score of 3 or higher. Each creature in-
cluded in the link is linked to all the 
others. The creatures can communicate 
telepathically through the bond regardless 
of language. No special power or influence 
is established as a result of the bond. Once 
the bond is formed, it works over any 
distance (although not from one plane to 
another). 
If desired, you may leave yourself out of 
the telepathic bond forged. This decision 
must be made at the time of casting. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 