 
 273
Material Component:  A sprinkle of holy 
water and diamonds worth a total of at 
least 10,000 gp. 
 
Reverse Gravity 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Up to one 10-ft. cube per two 
levels (S) 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell reverses gravity in an area, caus-
ing all unattached objects and creatures 
within that area to fall upward and reach 
the top of the area in 1 round. If some solid 
object (such as a ceiling) is encountered in 
this fall, falling objects and creatures strike 
it in the same manner as they would 
during a normal downward fall. If an 
object or creature reaches the top of the 
area without striking anything, it remains 
there, oscillating slightly, until the spell 
ends. At the end of the spell duration, 
affected objects and creatures fall 
downward. 
Provided it has something to hold onto, 
a creature caught in the area can attempt a 
Reflex save to secure itself when the spell 
strikes. Creatures who can fly or levitate 
can keep themselves from falling. 
Arcane Material Component:  A lodestone 
and iron filings. 
 
Righteous Might 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 5, Strength 5 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
 
Your height immediately doubles, and 
your weight increases by a factor of eight. 
This increase changes your size category to 
the next larger one, and you gain a +8 size 
bonus to Strength and a +4 size bonus to 
Constitution. You gain a +4 enhancement 
bonus to your natural armor. You gain 
damage reduction 5/evil (if you normally 
channel positive energy) or damage 
reduction 5/good (if you normally channel 
negative energy). At 12th level this damage 
reduction becomes 10/evil or 10/good, and 
at 15th level it becomes 15/evil or 15/good 
(the maximum). Your size modifier for AC 
and attacks changes as appropriate to your 
new size category (if your original size was 
Diminutive, Tiny, Small, Medium, or 
Large, the modifier decreases by 1; other-
wise see Size Modifier, page 134). 
Use Table 8–4: Creature Size and Scale 
to determine your new space and reach. 
This spell doesn’t change your speed. 
If insufficient room is available for the 
desired growth, you attain the maximum 
possible size and may make a Strength 
check (using your increased Strength) to 
burst any enclosures in the process. If you 
fail, you are constrained without harm by 
the materials enclosing you—the spell 
cannot crush you by increasing your size. 
All equipment you wear or carry is 
similarly enlarged by the spell. Melee and 
projectile weapons deal more damage (see 
Table 2–2 in the Dungeon Master’s Guide ). 
Other magical properties are not affected 
by this spell. Any enlarged item that leaves 
your possession (including a projectile or 
thrown weapon) instantly returns to its 
normal size. This means that thrown 
weapons deal their normal damage 
(projectiles deal damage based on the size 
of the weapon that fired them). 
Multiple magical effects that increase 
size do not stack, which means (among 
other things) that you can’t use a second 
casting of this spell to further increase 
your size while you are still under the 
effect of the first casting. 
 
Rope Trick 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: One touched piece of rope from 
5 ft. to 30 ft. long 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
When this spell is cast upon a piece of rope 
from 5 to 30 feet long, one end of the rope 
rises into the air until the whole rope 
hangs perpendicular to the ground, as if 
affixed at the upper end. The upper end is, 
in fact, fastened to an extradimensional 
space that is outside the multiverse of 
extradimensional spaces (“planes”). Crea-
tures in the extradimensional space are 
hidden, beyond the reach of spells 
(including divinations), unless those spells 
work across planes. The space holds as 
many as eight creatures (of any size). 
Creatures in the space can pull the rope up 
into the space, making the rope “disap-
pear.” In that case, the rope counts as one 
of the eight creatures that can fit in the 
space. The rope can support up to 16,000 
pounds. A weight greater than that can 
pull the rope free. 
Spells cannot be cast across the extra-
dimensional interface, nor can area effects 
cross it. Those in the extradimensional 
space can see out of it as if a 3-foot-by- 5-
foot window were centered on the rope. 
The window is present on the Material 
Plane, but it’s invisible, and even creatures 
that can see the window can’t see through 
it. Anything inside the extradimensional 
space drops out when the spell ends. The 
rope can be climbed by only one person at 
a time. The rope trick spell enables climbers 
to reach a normal place if they do not 
climb all the way to the extradimensional 
space. 
Note: I t  i s  h a z a r d o u s  t o  c r e a t e  a n  e x -
tradimensional space within an existing 
extradimensional space or to take an ex-
tradimensional space into an existing one. 
Material Component:  Powdered corn 
extract and a twisted loop of parchment. 
 
Rusting Grasp 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: One nonmagical ferrous object 
(or the volume of the object within 
3 ft. of the touched point) or one 
ferrous creature 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
Any iron or iron alloy item you touch be-
comes instantaneously rusted, pitted, and 
worthless, effectively destroyed. If the 
item is so large that it cannot fit within a 3-
foot radius (a large iron door or a wall of 
iron), a 3-foot-radius volume of the metal is 
rusted and destroyed. Magic items made of 
metal are immune to this spell. 
You may employ rusting grasp in combat 
with a successful melee touch attack. 
Rusting grasp  used in this way instanta-
neously destroys 1d6 points of Armor 
Class gained from metal armor (to the 
maximum amount of protection the armor 
offered) through corrosion. For example, 
full plate armor (AC +8) could be reduced 
to +7 or as low as +2 in protection, 
depending on the die roll. 
Weapons in use by an opponent tar-
geted by the spell are more difficult to 
grasp. You must succeed on a melee touch 
attack against the weapon. A metal weapon 
that is hit is destroyed. 
Note: Striking at an opponent’s weapon 
provokes an attack of opportunity. Also, 
you must touch the weapon and not the 
other way around. 
Against a ferrous creature, rusting grasp  
instantaneously deals 3d6 points of dam-
age +1 per caster level (maximum +15) per 
successful attack. The spell lasts for 1 
round per level, and you can make one 
melee touch attack per round. 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 