 
 276 
subject. The subject recognizes you if it 
knows you. It can answer in like manner 
immediately. A creature with an Intel-
ligence score as low as 1 can understand 
the sending, though the subject’s ability to 
react is limited as normal by its Intelli-
gence score. Even if the sending is received, 
the subject is not obligated to act upon it in 
any manner. 
If the creature in question is not on the 
same plane of existence as you are, there is 
a 5% chance that the sending does not 
arrive. (Local conditions on other planes 
may worsen this chance considerably, at 
the option of the DM.) 
Arcane Material Component: A short piece 
of fine copper wire. 
 
Sepia Snake Sigil 
Conjuration (Creation) [Force] 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Target: One touched book or written 
work 
Duration: Permanent or until 
discharged; until released or 1d4 days 
+ one day/level; see text 
Saving Throw: Reflex negates 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
When you cast sepia snake sigil , a small 
symbol appears in the text of one written 
work such as a book, scroll, or map. The 
text containing the symbol must be at least 
twenty-five words long. When anyone 
reads the text containing the symbol, the 
sepia snake  springs into being and strikes 
the reader, provided there is line of effect 
between the symbol and the reader. 
Simply seeing the enspelled text is not 
sufficient to trigger the spell; the subject 
must deliberately read it. The target is 
entitled to a save to evade the snake’s 
strike. If it succeeds, the sepia snake  dissi-
pates in a flash of brown light accompa-
nied by a puff of dun-colored smoke and a 
loud noise. If the target fails its save, it is 
engulfed in a shimmering amber field of 
force and immobilized until released, 
either at your command or when 1d4 days 
+ one day per caster level have elapsed. 
While trapped in the amber field of 
force, the subject does not age, breathe, 
grow hungry, sleep, or regain spells. It is 
preserved in a state of suspended anima-
tion, unaware of its surroundings. It can be 
damaged by outside forces (and perhaps 
even killed), since the field provides no 
protection against physical injury. How-
ever, a dying subject does not lose hit 
points or become stable until the spell 
ends. 
The hidden sigil cannot be detected by 
normal observation, and detect magic  
reveals only that the entire text is magical. 
A dispel magic  can remove the sigil. An 
erase spell destroys the entire page of text. 
Sepia snake sigil  can be cast in combination 
with other spells that hide or garble text, 
such as secret page. 
Material Component:  500 gp worth of 
powdered amber, a scale from any snake, 
and a pinch of mushroom spores. 
 
Sequester 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: One willing creature or object 
(up to a 2-ft. cube/level) touched 
Duration: One day/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(object) 
Spell Resistance: No or Yes (object) 
 
When cast, this spell not only prevents 
divination spells from working to detect or 
locate the creature or object affected by 
sequester, it also renders the affected crea-
ture or object invisible to any form of sight 
or seeing (as the invisibility spell). Thus, 
sequester can mask a secret door, a treasure 
vault, or anything similar. The spell does 
not prevent the subject from being discov-
ered through tactile means or through the 
use of devices (such as a robe of eyes or a gem 
of seeing ). Creatures affected by sequester 
become comatose and are effectively in a 
state of suspended animation until the 
spell wears off or is dispelled. 
Note: The Will save prevents an attended 
or magical object from being sequestered. 
There is no save to see the sequestered 
creature or object or to detect it with a 
divination spell. 
Material Component:  A basilisk eyelash, 
gum arabic, and a dram of whitewash. 
 
Shades 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9 
 
This spell functions like shadow conjuration, 
except that it mimics sorcerer and wizard 
conjuration spells of 8th level or lower. 
The illusory conjurations created deal four-
fifths (80%) damage to nonbelievers, and 
nondamaging effects are 80% likely to 
work against nonbelievers. 
 
Shadow Conjuration 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Effect: See text 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if 
interacted with); varies; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes; see text 
You use material from the Plane of Shadow 
to shape quasi-real illusions of one or more 
creatures, objects, or forces. Shadow 
conjuration can mimic any sorcerer or wiz-
ard conjuration (summoning) or conjura-
tion (creation) spell of 3rd level or lower. 
Shadow conjurations  are actually one-fifth 
(20%) as strong as the real things, though 
creatures who believe the shadow conjura-
tions to be real are affected by them at full 
strength. 
Any creature that interacts with the 
conjured object, force, or creature can 
make a Will save to recognize its true 
nature. 
Spells that deal damage, such as Melf’s 
acid arrow , have normal effects unless the 
affected creature succeeds on a Will save. 
Each disbelieving creature takes only one-
fifth (20%) damage from the attack. If the 
disbelieved attack has a special effect other 
than damage, that effect is only 20% likely 
to occur. Regardless of the result of the 
save to disbelieve, an affected creature is 
also allowed any save that the spell being 
simulated allows, but the save DC is set 
according to shadow conjuration’s level (5th) 
rather than the spell’s normal level. In 
addition, any effect created by shadow 
conjuration allows spell resistance, even if 
the spell it is simulating does not. 
Shadow objects or substances, such as 
obscuring mist , have normal effects except 
against those who disbelieve them. Against 
disbelievers, they are 20% likely to work. 
A shadow creature has one-fifth the hit 
points of a normal creature of its kind 
(regardless of whether it’s recognized as 
shadowy). It deals normal damage and has 
all normal abilities and weaknesses. 
Against a creature that recognizes it as a 
shadow creature, however, the shadow 
creature’s damage is one-fifth (20%) 
normal, and all special abilities that do not 
deal lethal damage are only 20% likely to 
work. (Roll for each use and each affected 
character separately.) Furthermore, the 
shadow creature’s AC bonuses are one-fifth 
as large (so a +7 bonus resulting in AC 17 
would change to a +1 total bonus for a new 
AC of 11). 
A creature that succeeds on its save sees 
the shadow conjurations  as transparent 
images superimposed on vague, shadowy 
forms. 
Objects automatically succeed on their 
Will saves against this spell. 
 
Shadow Conjuration, Greater 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
 
This spell functions like shadow conjuration, 
except that it can duplicate any sorcerer or 
wizard conjuration (summoning) or 
conjuration (creation) spell of 6th level or 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 