 
 277
lower. The illusory conjurations created 
deal three-fifths (60%) damage to non-
believers, and nondamaging effects are 
60% likely to work against nonbelievers. 
 
Shadow Evocation 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Effect: See text 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter-
acted with) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You tap energy from the Plane of Shadow 
to cast a quasi-real, illusory version of a 
sorcerer or wizard evocation spell of 4th 
level or lower. (For a spell with more than 
one level, use the best one applicable to 
you.) 
Spells that deal damage, such as light-
ning bolt , have normal effects unless an 
affected creature succeeds on a Will save. 
Each disbelieving creature takes only one-
fifth damage from the attack. If the 
disbelieved attack has a special effect other 
than damage, that effect is one-fifth as 
strong (if applicable) or only 20% likely to 
occur. If recognized as a shadow evocation, a 
damaging spell deals only one-fifth (20%) 
damage. Regardless of the result of the 
save to disbelieve, an affected creature is 
also allowed any save (or spell resistance) 
that the spell being simulated allows, but 
the save DC is set according to shadow 
evocation’s level (5th) rather than the spell’s 
normal level. 
Nondamaging effects, such as gust of 
wind, have normal effects except against 
those who disbelieve them. Against dis-
believers, they have no effect. 
Objects automatically succeed on their 
Will saves against this spell. 
 
Shadow Evocation, Greater 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
 
This spell functions like shadow evocation , 
except that it enables you to create par-
tially real, illusory versions of sorcerer or 
wizard evocation spells of 7th level or 
lower. If recognized as a greater shadow evo-
cation, a damaging spell deals only three-
fifths (60%) damage. 
 
Shadow Walk 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: Up to one touched creature/ 
level 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
To use the shadow walk spell, you must be 
in an area of shadowy illumination. You 
and any creature you touch are then trans-
ported along a coiling path of shadowstuff 
to the edge of the Material Plane where it 
borders the Plane of Shadow. The effect is 
largely illusory, but the path is quasi-real. 
You can take more than one creature along 
with you (subject to your level limit), but 
all must be touching each other. 
In the region of shadow, you move at a 
rate of 50 miles per hour, moving normally 
on the borders of the Plane of Shadow but 
much more rapidly relative to the Material 
Plane. Thus, you can use this spell to travel 
rapidly by stepping onto the Plane of 
Shadow, moving the desired distance, and 
then stepping back onto the Material 
Plane. 
Because of the blurring of reality be-
tween the Plane of Shadow and the Ma-
terial Plane, you can’t make out details of 
the terrain or areas you pass over during 
transit, nor can you predict perfectly 
where your travel will end. It’s impossible 
to judge distances accurately, making the 
spell virtually useless for scouting or 
spying. Furthermore, when the spell effect 
ends, you are shunted 1d10×100 feet in a 
random horizontal direction from your 
desired endpoint. If this would place you 
within a solid object, you are shunted 
1d10×1,000 feet in the same direction. If 
this would still place you within a solid 
object, you (and any creatures with you) 
are shunted to the nearest empty space 
available, but the strain of this activity 
renders each creature fatigued (no save). 
Shadow walk can also be used to travel to 
other planes that border on the Plane of 
Shadow, but this usage requires the transit 
of the Plane of Shadow to arrive at a border 
with another plane of reality. The transit of 
the Plane of Shadow requires 1d4 hours. 
Any creatures touched by you when 
shadow walk is cast also make the transition 
to the borders of the Plane of Shadow. 
They may opt to follow you, wander off 
through the plane, or stumble back into 
the Material Plane (50% chance for either 
of the latter results if they are lost or aban-
doned by you). Creatures unwilling to 
accompany you into the Plane of Shadow 
receive a Will saving throw, negating the 
effect if successful. 
 
Shambler 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Drd 9, Plant 9 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Three or more shambling 
mounds, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart; see text 
Duration: Seven days or seven months 
(D); see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
The shambler spell creates 1d4+2 sham-
bling mounds with 11 HD each. (See the 
Monster Manual  for details about sham-
bling mounds.) The creatures willingly aid 
you in combat or battle, perform a specific 
mission, or serve as bodyguards. The 
creatures remain with you for seven days 
unless you dismiss them. If the shamblers 
are created only for guard duty, however, 
the duration of the spell is seven months. 
In this case, the shamblers can only be 
ordered to guard a specific site or location. 
Shamblers summoned to guard duty 
cannot move outside the spell’s range, 
which is measured from the point where 
each first appeared.  
The shamblers have resistance to fire as 
normal shambling mounds do only if the 
terrain is rainy, marshy, or damp. 
 
Shapechange 
Transmutation 
Level: Animal 9, Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
 
This spell functions like polymorph, except 
that it enables you to assume the form of 
any single nonunique creature (of any 
type) from Fine to Colossal size. The 
assumed form cannot have more than 
twice your caster level in Hit Dice (to a 
maximum of 50 HD). Unlike polymorph, 
this spell allows incorporeal or gaseous 
forms to be assumed. 
You gain all extraordinary and super-
natural abilities (both attacks and qualities) 
of the assumed form, but you lose your 
own supernatural abilities. You also gain 
the type of the new form (for example, 
dragon or magical beast) in place of your 
own. The new form does not disorient you. 
Parts of your body or pieces of equipment 
that are separated from you do not revert 
to their original forms. 
You can become just about anything you 
are familiar with. You can change form 
once each round as a free action. The 
change takes place either immediately 
before your regular action or immediately 
after it, but not during the action. For 
example, you are in combat and assume 
the form of a will-o’-wisp. When this form 
is no longer useful, you change into a stone 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 