 
 281
Loose dirt is not as troublesome as mud, 
but all creatures in the area can move at 
only half their normal speed and can’t run 
or charge over the surface. 
Stone softened into clay does not hinder 
movement, but it does allow characters to 
cut, shape, or excavate areas they may not 
have been able to affect before. For 
example, a party of adventurers trying to 
break out of a cavern might use this spell 
to soften a wall. While soften earth and stone  
does not affect dressed or worked stone, 
cavern ceilings or vertical surfaces such as 
cliff faces can be affected. Usually, this 
causes a moderate collapse or landslide as 
the loosened material peels away from the 
face of the wall or roof and falls. 
A moderate amount of structural dam-
age can be dealt to a manufactured struc-
ture (such as a wall or a tower) by softening 
the ground beneath it, causing it to settle. 
However, most well-built structures will 
only be damaged by this spell, not 
destroyed. 
 
Solid Fog 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell functions like fog cloud , but in 
addition to obscuring sight, the solid fog  is 
so thick that any creature attempting to 
move through it progresses at a speed of 5 
feet, regardless of its normal speed, and it 
takes a –2 penalty on all melee attack and 
melee damage rolls. The vapors prevent 
effective ranged weapon attacks (except for 
magic rays and the like). A creature or 
object that falls into solid fog  is slowed, so 
that each 10 feet of vapor that it passes 
through reduces falling damage by 1d6. A 
creature can’t take a 5-foot step while in 
solid fog. 
However, unlike normal fog, only a se-
vere wind (31+ mph) disperses these va-
pors, and it does so in 1 round. 
Solid fog  can be made permanent with a 
permanency spell. A permanent solid fog  
dispersed by wind reforms in 10 minutes. 
Material Component:  A pinch of dried, 
powdered peas combined with powdered 
animal hoof. 
 
Song of Discord 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-
Affecting, Sonic] 
Level: Brd 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Creatures within a 20-ft.-radius 
spread 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
This spell causes those within the area to 
turn on each other rather than attack their 
foes. Each affected creature has a 50% 
chance to attack the nearest target each 
round. (Roll to determine each creature’s 
behavior every round at the beginning of 
its turn.) A creature that does not attack its 
nearest neighbor is free to act normally for 
that round. 
Creatures forced by a song of discord  to 
attack their fellows employ all methods at 
their disposal, choosing their deadliest 
spells and most advantageous combat tac-
tics. They do not, however, harm targets 
that have fallen unconscious. 
 
Soul Bind 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: Corpse 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You draw the soul from a newly dead body 
and imprison it in a black sapphire gem. 
The subject must have been dead no more 
than 1 round per caster level. The soul, 
once trapped in the gem, cannot be 
returned through clone, raise dead , reincar-
nation, resurrection, true resurrection, or even 
a miracle or a wish. Only by destroying the 
gem or dispelling the spell on the gem can 
one free the soul (which is then still dead). 
Focus: A black sapphire of at least 1,000 
gp value for every Hit Die possessed by the 
creature whose soul is to be bound. If the 
gem is not valuable enough, it shatters 
when the binding is attempted. (While 
creatures have no concept of level or Hit 
Dice as such, the value of the gem needed 
to trap an individual can be researched. 
Remember that this value can change over 
time as creatures gain more Hit Dice.) 
 
Sound Burst 
Evocation [Sonic] 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 2 
Components: V, S, F/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 10-ft.-radius spread 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
You blast an area with a tremendous ca-
cophony. Every creature in the area takes 
1d8 points of sonic damage and must suc-
ceed on a Fortitude save to avoid being 
stunned for 1 round.  
Creatures that cannot hear are not 
stunned but are still damaged. 
Arcane Focus: A musical instrument. 
Speak with Animals 
Divination 
Level: Brd 3, Drd 1, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level 
 
You can comprehend and communicate 
with animals. You are able to ask questions 
of and receive answers from animals, 
although the spell doesn’t make them any 
more friendly or cooperative than normal. 
Furthermore, wary and cunning animals 
are likely to be terse and evasive, while the 
more stupid ones make inane comments. 
If an animal is friendly toward you, it may 
do some favor or service for you (as 
determined by the DM). 
 
Speak with Dead 
Necromancy [Language-Dependent] 
Level: Clr 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 10 ft. 
Target: One dead creature 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You grant the semblance of life and intel-
lect to a corpse, allowing it to answer sev-
eral questions that you put to it. You may 
ask one question per two caster levels. 
Unasked questions are wasted if the dura-
tion expires. The corpse’s knowledge is 
limited to what the creature knew during 
life, including the languages it spoke (if 
any). Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or 
repetitive. If the creature’s alignment was 
different from yours, the corpse gets a Will 
save to resist the spell as if it were alive. 
If the corpse has been subject to speak 
with dead  within the past week, the new 
spell fails. You can cast this spell on a 
corpse that has been deceased for any 
amount of time, but the body must be 
mostly intact to be able to respond. A 
damaged corpse may be able to give partial 
answers or partially correct answers, but it 
must at least have a mouth in order to 
speak at all.  
This spell does not let you actually speak 
to the person (whose soul has departed). It 
instead draws on the imprinted knowledge 
stored in the corpse. The partially 
animated body retains the imprint of the 
soul that once inhabited it, and thus it can 
speak with all the knowledge that the 
creature had while alive. The corpse, 
however, cannot learn new information. 
Indeed, it can’t even remember being 
questioned. 
This spell does not affect a corpse that 
has been turned into an undead creature. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 