 
 282 
Speak with Plants 
Divination 
Level: Brd 4, Drd 3, Rgr 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 min./level 
 
You can comprehend and communicate 
with plants, including both normal plants 
and plant creatures. You are able to ask 
questions of and receive answers from 
plants. A regular plant’s sense of its sur-
roundings is limited, so it won’t be able to 
give (or recognize) detailed descriptions of 
creatures or answer questions about events 
outside its immediate vicinity. 
The spell doesn’t make plant creatures 
any more friendly or cooperative than 
normal. Furthermore, wary and cunning 
plant creatures are likely to be terse and 
evasive, while the more stupid ones may 
make inane comments. If a plant creature 
is friendly toward you, it may do some 
favor or service for you (as determined by 
the DM). 
 
Spectral Hand 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: One spectral hand 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
A ghostly, glowing hand shaped from your 
life force materializes and moves as you 
desire, allowing you to deliver low-level, 
touch range spells at a distance. On casting 
the spell, you lose 1d4 hit points that 
return when the spell ends (even if it is 
dispelled), but not if the hand is destroyed. 
(The hit points can be healed as normal.) 
For as long as the spell lasts, any touch 
range spell of 4th level or lower that you 
cast can be delivered by the spectral hand . 
The spell gives you a +2 bonus on your 
melee touch attack roll, and attacking with 
the hand counts normally as an attack. The 
hand always strikes from your direction. 
The hand cannot flank targets like a 
creature can. After it delivers a spell, or if 
the hand goes beyond the spell range, goes 
out of your sight, the hand returns to you 
and hovers. 
The hand is incorporeal and thus cannot 
be harmed by normal weapons. It has 
improved evasion (half damage on a failed 
Reflex save and no damage on a successful 
save), your save bonuses, and an AC of at 
least 22. Your Intelligence modifier applies 
to the hand’s AC as if it were the hand’s 
Dexterity modifier. The hand has 1 to 4 hit 
points, the same number that you lost in 
creating it. 
 
Spell Immunity 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 4, Protection 4, Strength 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The warded creature is immune to the ef-
fects of one specified spell for every four 
levels you have. The spells must be of 4th 
level or lower. The warded creature effec-
tively has unbeatable spell resistance re-
garding the specified spell or spells. Natu-
rally, that immunity doesn’t protect a 
creature from spells for which spell resist-
ance doesn’t apply. Spell immunity protects 
against spells, spell-like effects of magic 
items, and innate spell-like abilities of 
creatures. It does not protect against 
supernatural or extraordinary abilities, 
such as breath weapons or gaze attacks. 
Only a particular spell can be protected 
against, not a certain domain or school of 
spells or a group of spells that are similar in 
effect. Thus, a creature given immunity to 
lightning bolt  is still vulnerable to shocking 
grasp or chain lightning. 
A creature can have only one spell im-
munity or greater spell immunity  spell in 
effect on it at a time. 
 
Spell Immunity, Greater 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 8 
 
This spell functions like spell immunity , 
except the immunity applies to spells of 
8th level or lower. 
A creature can have only one spell im-
munity or greater spell immunity  spell in 
effect on it at a time. 
 
Spell Resistance 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 5, Magic 5, Protection 5 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The creature gains spell resistance equal to 
12 + your caster level. 
 
Spellstaff 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 6 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Target: Wooden quarterstaff touched 
Duration: Permanent until discharged 
(D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 
 
You store one spell that you can normally 
cast in a wooden quarterstaff. Only one 
such spell can be stored in a staff at a given 
time, and you cannot have more than one 
spellstaff at any given time. You can cast a 
spell stored within a staff just as though it 
were among those you had prepared, but it 
does not count against your normal 
allotment for a given day. You use up any 
applicable material components required 
to cast the spell when you store it in the 
spellstaff. 
Focus: The staff that stores the spell. 
 
Spell Turning 
Abjuration 
Level: Luck 7, Magic 7, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: Until expended or 10 
min./level 
 
Spells and spell-like effects targeted on you 
are turned back upon the original caster. 
The abjuration turns only spells that have 
you as a target. Effect and area spells are 
not affected. Spell turning  also fails to stop 
touch range spells. Thus, a charm person  
spell cast at you could be turned back upon 
the caster and possibly enable you to use 
the charm effect on that individual, but a 
fireball could not be turned back, and 
neither could inflict critical wounds. 
From seven to ten (1d4+6) spell levels 
are affected by the turning. The DM se-
cretly rolls the exact number. When a spell 
is turned, the DM subtracts its level from 
the amount of spell turning left. 
When you are targeted by a spell of 
higher level than the amount of spell turn-
ing you have left, that spell is partially 
turned. The subtract the amount of spell 
turning left from the spell level of the 
incoming spell, then divide the result by 
the spell level of the incoming spell to see 
what fraction of the effect gets through. 
For damaging spells, you and the caster 
each take a fraction of the damage. For 
nondamaging spells, each of you has a 
proportional chance to be affected. 
For example, if you had three levels of 
spell turning left and were targeted by an 
inflict critical wounds spell (a 4th-level spell), 
you would turn three-fourths of the spell 
back at the caster. You would take one-
forth of the damage, while the caster takes 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 