 
 295
resistance equal to 20 + its caster level 
against this spell. Artifacts cannot be 
transmuted. Weapons converted from 
metal to wood take a –2 penalty on attack 
and damage rolls. The armor bonus of any 
armor converted from metal to wood is 
reduced by 2. Weapons changed by this 
spell splinter and break on any natural 
attack roll of 1 or 2, and armor changed by 
this spell loses an additional point of armor 
bonus every time it is struck with a natural 
attack roll of 19 or 20. 
Only limited wish , miracle, wish, or simi-
lar magic can restore a transmuted object 
to its metallic state. Otherwise, for 
example, a metal door changed to wood is 
forevermore a wooden door. 
 
Transmute Mud to Rock 
Transmutation [Earth] 
Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S) 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell transforms normal mud or 
quicksand of any depth into soft stone 
(sandstone or a similar mineral) perma-
nently. Any creature in the mud is allowed 
a Reflex save to escape before the area is 
hardened to stone. 
Transmute mud to rock  counters and dis-
pels transmute rock to mud. 
Arcane Material Component:  Sand, lime, 
and water. 
 
Transmute Rock to Mud 
Transmutation [Earth] 
Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S) 
Duration: Permanent; see text 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell turns natural, uncut or un-
worked rock of any sort into an equal 
volume of mud. If the spell is cast upon a 
boulder, for example, the boulder collapses 
into mud. Magical stone is not affected by 
the spell. The depth of the mud created 
cannot exceed 10 feet. A creature unable to 
levitate, fly, or otherwise free itself from 
the mud sinks until hip- or chest-deep, 
reducing its speed to 5 feet and causing a   
–2 penalty on attack rolls and AC. Brush 
thrown atop the mud can support crea-
tures able to climb on top of it. Creatures 
large enough to walk on the bottom can 
wade through the area at a speed of 5 feet. 
 
If transmute rock to mud  is cast upon the 
ceiling of a cavern or tunnel, the mud falls 
to the floor and spreads out in a pool at a 
depth of 5 feet. For example, a 10th-level 
caster could convert twenty 10-foot cubes 
into mud. Pooling on the floor, this mud 
would cover an area of forty 10-foot 
squares to a depth of 5 feet. The falling 
mud and the ensuing cave-in deal 8d6 
points of bludgeoning damage to anyone 
caught directly beneath the area, or half 
damage to those who succeed on Reflex 
saves. 
Castles and large stone buildings are 
generally immune to the effect of the spell, 
since transmute rock to mud  can’t affect 
worked stone and doesn’t reach deep 
enough to undermine such buildings’ 
foundations. However, small buildings or 
structures often rest upon foundations 
shallow enough to be damaged or even 
partially toppled by this spell. 
The mud remains until a successful 
dispel magic  or transmute mud to rock  spell 
restores its substance—but not necessarily 
its form. Evaporation turns the mud to 
normal dirt over a period of days. The exact 
time depends on exposure to the sun, 
wind, and normal drainage. 
Arcane Material Component:  Clay and 
water. 
 
Transport via Plants 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Unlimited 
Target: You and touched objects or other 
touched willing creatures 
Duration: 1 round 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You can enter any normal plant (Medium 
or larger) and pass any distance to a plant 
of the same kind in a single round, re-
gardless of the distance separating the two. 
The entry plant must be alive. The 
destination plant need not be familiar to 
you, but it also must be alive. If you are 
uncertain of the location of a particular 
kind of destination plant, you need merely 
designate direction and distance (“an oak 
tree one hundred miles due north of 
here”), and the transport via plants  spell 
moves you as close as possible to the 
desired location. If a particular destination 
plant is desired (the oak tree outside your 
druid grove, for instance), but the plant is 
not living, the spell fails and you are 
ejected from the entry plant. 
You can bring along objects as long as 
their weight doesn’t exceed your maxi-
mum load. You may also bring one addi-
tional willing Medium or smaller creature 
(carrying gear or objects up to its maxi-
mum load) or its equivalent per three 
caster levels. Use the following equivalents 
to determine the maximum number of 
larger creatures you can bring along: A 
Large creature counts as two Medium 
creatures, a Huge creature counts as two 
Large creatures, and so forth. All creatures 
to be transported must be in contact with 
one another, and at least one of those crea-
tures must be in contact with you. 
You can’t use this spell to travel through 
plant creatures such as shambling mounds 
and treants. 
The destruction of an occupied plant 
slays you and any creatures you have 
brought along, and ejects the bodies and all 
carried objects from the tree. 
 
Trap the Soul 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M, (F); see text 
Casting Time: 1 standard action or 
see text 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 
Duration: Permanent; see text 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes; see text 
 
Trap the soul  forces a creature’s life force 
(and its material body) into a gem. 
The gem holds the trapped entity in-
definitely or until the gem is broken and 
the life force is released, which allows the 
material body to reform. If the trapped 
creature is a powerful creature from 
another plane (which could mean a 
character trapped by an inhabitant of 
another plane when the character is not on 
the Material Plane), it can be required to 
perform a service immediately upon being 
freed. Otherwise, the creature can go free 
once the gem imprisoning it is broken. 
Depending on the version selected, the 
spell can be triggered in one of two ways. 
Spell Completion:  First, the spell can be 
completed by speaking its final word as a 
standard action as if you were casting a 
regular spell at the subject. This allows 
spell resistance (if any) and a Will save to 
avoid the effect. If the creature’s name is 
spoken as well, any spell resistance is 
ignored and the save DC increases by 2. If 
the save or spell resistance is successful, 
the gem shatters. 
Trigger Object: The second method is far 
more insidious, for it tricks the subject 
into accepting a trigger object inscribed 
with the final spell word, automatically 
placing the creature’s soul in the trap. To 
use this method, both the creature’s name 
and the trigger word must be inscribed on 
the trigger object when the gem is 
enspelled. A sympathy spell can also be 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 