 
 296 
placed on the trigger object. As soon as the 
subject picks up or accepts the trigger 
object, its life force is automatically 
transferred to the gem without the benefit 
of spell resistance or a save. 
Material Component:  Before the actual 
casting of trap the soul, you must procure a 
gem of at least 1,000 gp value for every Hit 
Die possessed by the creature to be trapped 
(for example, it requires a gem of 10,000 gp 
value to trap a 10 HD creature). If the gem 
is not valuable enough, it shatters when 
the entrapment is attempted. (While 
creatures have no concept of level or Hit 
Dice as such, the value of the gem needed 
to trap an individual can be researched. 
Remember that this value can change over 
time as creatures gain more Hit Dice.) 
Focus (Trigger Object Only):  If the trigger 
object method is used, a special trigger 
object, prepared as described above, is 
needed. 
 
Tree Shape 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 2, Rgr 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
 
By means of this spell, you are able to as-
sume the form of a Large living tree or 
shrub or a Large dead tree trunk with a 
small number of limbs. The closest in-
spection cannot reveal that the tree in 
question is actually a magically concealed 
creature. To all normal tests you are, in 
fact, a tree or shrub, although a detect magic 
spell reveals a faint transmutation on the 
tree. While in tree form, you can observe 
all that transpires around you just as if you 
were in your normal form, and your hit 
points and save bonuses remain 
unaffected. You gain a +10 natural armor 
bonus to AC but have an effective Dexter-
ity score of 0 and a speed of 0 feet. You are 
immune to critical hits while in tree form. 
All clothing and gear carried or worn 
changes with you. 
You can dismiss tree shape as a free action 
(instead of as a standard action). 
 
Tree Stride 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Drd 5, Rgr 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
expended; see text 
 
 
You gain the ability to enter trees and 
move from inside one tree to inside 
another tree. The first tree you enter and 
all others you enter must be of the same 
kind, must be living, and must have girth 
at least equal to yours. By moving into an 
oak tree (for example), you instantly know 
the location of all other oak trees within 
transport range (see below) and may 
choose whether you want to pass into one 
or simply step back out of the tree you 
moved into. You may choose to pass to any 
tree of the appropriate kind within the 
transport range as shown on the following 
table. 
 
Type of Tree Transport Range 
Oak, ash, yew 3,000 feet 
Elm, linden 2,000 feet 
Other deciduous 1,500 feet 
Any coniferous 1,000 feet 
All other trees 500 feet  
 
You may move into a tree up to one time 
per caster level (passing from one tree to 
another counts only as moving into one 
tree). The spell lasts until the duration 
expires or you exit a tree. This means that 
in a thick oak forest, a 10th-level druid 
could make ten transports over the course 
of 10 rounds, traveling as far as 30,000 feet 
(about 6 miles) in doing so. Each transport 
is a full-round action. 
You can, at your option, remain within a 
tree without transporting yourself, but you 
are forced out when the spell ends. If the 
tree in which you are concealed is chopped 
down or burned, you are slain if you do not 
exit before the process is complete. 
 
True Resurrection 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 9 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
 
This spell functions like raise dead , except 
that you can resurrect a creature that has 
been dead for as long as 10 years per caster 
level. This spell can even bring back crea-
tures whose bodies have been destroyed, 
provided that you unambiguously identify 
the deceased in some fashion (reciting the 
deceased’s time and place of birth or death 
is the most common method). 
Upon completion of the spell, the crea-
ture is immediately restored to full hit 
points, vigor, and health, with no loss of 
level (or Constitution points) or prepared 
spells. 
You can revive someone killed by a 
death effect or someone who has been 
turned into an undead creature and then 
destroyed. This spell can also resurrect ele-
mentals or outsiders, but it can’t resurrect 
constructs or undead creatures. 
Even true resurrection can’t restore to life 
a creature who has died of old age. 
Material Component:  A sprinkle of holy 
water and diamonds worth a total of at 
least 25,000 gp. 
 
True Seeing 
Divination 
Level: Clr 5, Drd 7, Knowledge 5, 
Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
You confer on the subject the ability to see 
all things as they actually are. The subject 
sees through normal and magical darkness, 
notices secret doors hidden by magic, sees 
the exact locations of creatures or objects 
under blur or displacement effects, sees invi-
sible creatures or objects normally, sees 
through illusions, and sees the true form of 
polymorphed, changed, or transmuted 
things. Further, the subject can focus its 
vision to see into the Ethereal Plane (but 
not into extradimensional spaces). The 
range of true seeing conferred is 120 feet. 
True seeing, however, does not penetrate 
solid objects. It in no way confers X-ray 
vision or its equivalent. It does not negate 
concealment, including that caused by fog 
and the like. True seeing  does not help the 
viewer see through mundane disguises, 
spot creatures who are simply hiding, or 
notice secret doors hidden by mundane 
means. In addition, the spell effects cannot 
be further enhanced with known magic, so 
one cannot use true seeing through a crystal 
ball or in conjunction with clairaudience/ 
clairvoyance. 
Material Component: An ointment for the 
eyes that costs 250 gp and is made from 
mushroom powder, saffron, and fat. 
 
True Strike 
Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: See text 
 
You gain temporary, intuitive insight into 
the immediate future during your next 
attack. Your next single attack roll (if it is 
made before the end of the next round) 
gains a +20 insight bonus. Additionally, 
you are not affected by the miss chance 
that applies to attackers trying to strike a 
concealed target. 
Focus: A small wooden replica of an 
archery target. 
 
 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 