 
 299
A wall of force spell creates an invisible wall 
of force. The wall cannot move, it is 
immune to damage of all kinds, and it is 
unaffected by most spells, including dispel 
magic. However, disintegrate immediately 
destroys it, as does a rod of cancellation , a 
sphere of annihilation , or a Mordenkainen’s 
disjunction spell. Breath weapons and spells 
cannot pass through the wall in either 
direction, although dimension door , teleport, 
and similar effects can bypass the barrier. 
It blocks ethereal creatures as well as 
material ones (though ethereal creatures 
can usually get around the wall by floating 
under or over it through material floors 
and ceilings). Gaze attacks can operate 
through a wall of force. 
The caster can form the wall into a flat, 
vertical plane whose area is up to one 10- 
foot square per level. The wall must be 
continuous and unbroken when formed. If 
its surface is broken by any object or 
creature, the spell fails. 
Wall of force  can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 
Material Component:  A pinch of powder 
made from a clear gem. 
 
Wall of Ice 
Evocation [Cold] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Anchored plane of ice, up to one 
10-ft. square/level, or hemisphere of 
ice with a radius of up to 3 ft. + 
1 ft./level 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 
 
This spell creates an anchored plane of ice 
or a hemisphere of ice, depending on the 
version selected. A wall of ice  cannot form 
in an area occupied by physical objects or 
creatures. Its surface must be smooth and 
unbroken when created. Any creature 
adjacent to the wall when it is created may 
attempt a Reflex save to disrupt the wall as 
it is being formed. A successful save 
indicates that the spell automatically fails. 
Fire, including a fireball spell and red 
dragon breath, can melt a wall of ice , and it 
deals full damage to the wall (instead of the 
normal half damage taken by objects). 
Suddenly melting a wall of ice  creates a 
great cloud of steamy fog that lasts for 10 
minutes. 
Ice Plane: A sheet of strong, hard ice ap-
pears. The wall is 1 inch thick per caster 
level. It covers up to a 10-foot-square area 
per caster level (so a 10th-level wizard can 
create a wall of ice 100 feet long and 10 feet 
high, a wall 50 feet long and 20 feet high, 
or some other combination of length and 
height that does not exceed 1,000 square 
feet). The plane can be oriented in any 
fashion as long as it is anchored. A vertical 
wall need only be anchored on the floor, 
while a horizontal or slanting wall must be 
anchored on two opposite sides. 
The wall is primarily defensive in nature 
and is used to stop pursuers from 
following you and the like. Each 10-foot 
square of wall has 3 hit points per inch of 
thickness. Creatures can hit the wall auto-
matically. A section of wall whose hit 
points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature 
tries to break through the wall with a 
single attack, the DC for the Strength 
check is 15 + caster level. 
Even when the ice has been broken 
through, a sheet of frigid air remains. Any 
creature stepping through it (including the 
one who broke through the wall) takes 1d6 
points of cold damage +1 point per caster 
level (no save). 
Hemisphere: The wall takes the form of a 
hemisphere whose maximum radius is 3 
feet + 1 foot per caster level. Thus, a 7th-
level caster can create a hemisphere 10 feet 
in radius. The hemisphere is as hard to break 
through as the ice plane  form, but it does 
not deal damage to those who go through a 
breach. 
Material Component:  A small piece of 
quartz or similar rock crystal. 
 
Wall of Iron 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Iron wall whose area is up to one 
5-ft. square/level; see text 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
You cause a flat, vertical iron wall to spring 
into being. This wall can be used to seal off 
a passage or close a breach, for the wall 
inserts itself into any surrounding 
nonliving material if its area is sufficient 
to do so. The wall cannot be conjured so 
that it occupies the same space as a 
creature or another object. It must always 
be a flat plane, though you can shape its 
edges to fit the available space. 
A wall of iron  is 1 inch thick per four 
caster levels. You can double the wall’s 
area by halving its thickness. Each 5-foot 
square of the wall has 30 hit points 
per inch of thickness and hardness 
10. A section of wall whose hit 
points drop to 0 is breached. If a 
creature tries to break through the wall 
with a single attack, the DC for the 
Strength check is 25 + 2 per inch of 
thickness. 
If you desire, the wall can be created 
vertically resting on a flat surface but not 
attached to the surface, so that it can be 
tipped over to fall on and crush creatures 
beneath it. The wall is 50% likely to tip in 
either direction if left unpushed. Creatures 
can push the wall in one direction rather 
than letting it fall randomly. A creature 
must make a DC 40 Strength check to 
push the wall over. Creatures with room to 
flee the falling wall may do so by making 
successful Reflex saves. Any Large or 
smaller creature that fails takes 10d6 points 
of damage. The wall cannot crush Huge 
and larger creatures. 
Like any iron wall, this wall is subject to 
rust, perforation, and other natural 
phenomena. 
Material Component:  A small piece of 
s h e e t  i r o n  p l u s  g o l d  d u s t  w o r t h  5 0  g p  ( 1  
pound of gold dust). 
 
Wall of Stone 
Conjuration (Creation) [Earth] 
Level: Clr 5, Drd 6, Earth 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Stone wall whose area is up to 
one 5-ft. square/level (S) 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
This spell creates a wall of rock that 
merges into adjoining rock surfaces. It is 
typically employed to close passages, 
portals, and breaches against opponents. A 
wall of stone  is 1 inch thick per four caster 
levels and composed of up to one 5-foot 
square per level. You can double the wall’s 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 