 
 300 
area by halving its thickness. The wall 
cannot be conjured so that it occupies the 
same space as a creature or another object. 
Unlike a wall of iron , you can create a 
wall of stone in almost any shape you desire. 
The wall created need not be vertical, nor 
rest upon any firm foundation; however, it 
must merge with and be solidly supported 
by existing stone. It can be used to bridge a 
chasm, for instance, or as a ramp. For this 
use, if the span is more than 20 feet, the 
wall must be arched and buttressed. This 
requirement reduces the spell’s area by 
half. Thus, a 20th-level caster can create 
span with a surface area of ten 5-foot 
squares. The wall can be crudely shaped to 
allow crenellations, battlements, and so 
forth by likewise reducing the area. 
Like any other stone wall, this one can 
be destroyed by a disintegrate spell or by 
normal means such as breaking and chip-
ping. Each 5-foot square of the wall has 15 
hit points per inch of thickness and hard-
ness 8. A section of wall whose hit points 
drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to 
break through the wall with a single attack, 
the DC for the Strength check is 20 + 2 per 
inch of thickness. 
It is possible, but difficult, to trap mo-
bile opponents within or under a wall of 
stone, provided the wall is shaped so it can 
hold the creatures. Creatures can avoid 
entrapment with successful Reflex saves. 
Arcane Material Component:  A small 
block of granite. 
 
Wall of Thorns 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Drd 5, Plant 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Wall of thorny brush, up to one 
10-ft. cube/level (S) 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 
 
A wall of thorns  spell creates a barrier of 
very tough, pliable, tangled brush bearing 
needle-sharp thorns as long as a human’s 
finger. Any creature forced into or 
attempting to move through a wall of thorns 
takes slashing damage per round of 
movement equal to 25 minus the creature’s 
AC. Dexterity and dodge bonuses to AC do 
not count for this calculation. (Creatures 
with an Armor Class of 25 or higher, 
without considering Dexterity and dodge 
bonuses, take no damage from contact 
with the wall.) 
You can make the wall as thin as 5 feet 
thick, which allows you to shape the wall 
as a number of 10-by-10-by-5-foot blocks 
equal to twice your caster level. This has no 
effect on the damage dealt by the thorns, 
but any creature attempting to break 
through takes that much less time to force 
its way through the barrier. 
Creatures can force their way slowly 
through the wall by making a Strength 
check as a full-round action. For every 5 
points by which the check exceeds 20, a 
creature moves 5 feet (up to a maximum 
distance equal to its normal land speed). 
For example, a creature that rolled 25 on 
its Strength check could move 5 feet in a 
round. Of course, moving or attempting to 
move through the thorns incurs damage as 
described above. A creature trapped in the 
thorns can choose to remain motionless in 
order to avoid taking any more damage. 
Any creature within the area of the spell 
when it is cast takes damage as if it had 
moved into the wall and is caught inside. 
In order to escape, it must attempt to push 
its way free, or it can wait until the spell 
ends. Creatures with the ability to pass 
through overgrown areas unhindered can 
pass through a wall of thorns  at normal 
speed without taking damage. 
A wall of thorns  can be breached by slow 
work with edged weapons. Chopping away 
at the wall creates a safe passage 1 foot 
deep for every 10 minutes of work. Normal 
fire cannot harm the barrier, but magical 
fire burns it away in 10 minutes. 
Despite its appearance, a wall of thorns  is 
not actually a living plant, and thus is 
unaffected by spells that affect plants. 
 
Warp Wood 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: 1 Small wooden object/level, all 
within a 20-ft. radius 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 
 
You cause wood to bend and warp, per-
manently destroying its straightness, form, 
and strength. A warped door springs open 
(or becomes stuck, requiring a Strength 
check to open, at your option). A boat or 
ship springs a leak. Warped ranged 
weapons are useless. A warped melee 
weapon causes a –4 penalty on attack rolls. 
You may warp one Small or smaller ob-
ject (such as a wagon wheel or a human’s 
crossbow) or its equivalent per caster level. 
A Medium object (such as an oar or a 
human’s spear) counts as two Small ob-
jects, a Large object (such as a rowboat or a 
hill giant’s greatclub) as four, a Huge 
object (such as a wagon or a cloud giant’s 
morningstar) as eight, a Gargantuan object 
(such as a keelboat) as sixteen, and a 
Colossal object (such as a sailing ship) as 
thirty-two. 
Alternatively, you can unwarp wood 
(effectively warping it back to normal) 
with this spell, straightening wood that has 
been warped by this spell or by other 
means. Make whole , on the other hand, 
does no good in repairing a warped item. 
You can combine multiple consecutive 
warp wood spells to warp (or unwarp) an 
object that is too large for you to warp with 
a single spell.  
Until the object is completely warped, it 
suffers no ill effects. 
 
Water Breathing 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Sor/Wiz 3, Water 3 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creatures touched 
Duration: 2 hours/level; see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The transmuted creatures can breathe wa-
ter freely. Divide the duration evenly 
among all the creatures you touch. 
The spell does not make creatures un-
able to breathe air. 
Arcane Material Component:  A short reed 
or piece of straw. 
 
Water Walk 
Transmutation [Water] 
Level: Clr 3, Rgr 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Targets: One touched creature/level 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
 
The transmuted creatures can tread on any 
liquid as if it were firm ground. Mud, oil, 
snow, quicksand, running water, ice, and 
even lava can be traversed easily, since the 
subjects’ feet hover an inch or two above 
the surface. (Creatures crossing molten 
lava still take damage from the heat 
because they are near it.) The subjects can 
walk, run, charge, or otherwise move 
across the surface as if it were normal 
ground. 
If the spell is cast underwater (or while 
the subjects are partially or wholly sub-
merged in whatever liquid they are in), the 
subjects are borne toward the surface at 60 
feet per round until they can stand on it. 
CHAPTER 11: 
SPELLS 