 305
arcane spells:  Arcane spells involve the direct manipulation of 
mystic energies. Bards, sorcerers, and wizards cast arcane spells. 
armor bonus: A bonus to Armor Class granted by armor or by a 
spell or magical effect that mimics armor. Armor bonuses stack with 
all other bonuses to Armor Class (even with natural armor bonuses) 
except other armor bonuses. Magic armor typically grants an 
enhancement bonus to the armor’s armor bonus, which has the 
effect of increasing the armor’s overall bonus. An armor bonus 
granted by a spell or magic item typically takes the form of an 
invisible, tangible field of force around the recipient. An armor 
bonus doesn’t apply against touch attacks, except for armor bonuses 
granted by force effects (such as the mage armor spell) which apply 
against incorporeal touch attacks, such as that of a shadow. 
Armor Class (AC):  A number representing a creature’s 
ability to avoid being hit in combat. An opponent’s attack 
roll must equal or exceed the target creature’s Armor Class 
to hit it. Armor Class = 10 + all modifiers that apply 
(typically armor bonus, shield bonus, Dexterity mod-
ifier, and size modifier). 
artifact: A magic item of incredible power. 
Some spells do not function when targeted 
on an artifact. 
Astral Plane: An open, weightless plane 
that connects with all other planes of 
existence and is used for transportation 
among them (and is thus described as a 
transitive plane, like the Ethereal Plane 
and the Plane of Shadow). Certain 
spells (such as astral projection ) allow 
access to this plane. 
attack: Any of numerous 
actions intended to harm, disa-
ble, or neutralize an opponent. 
The outcome of an attack is 
determined by an attack roll. 
attack of opportunity:  A 
single extra melee attack per 
round that a combatant can 
make when an opponent within 
reach takes an action that provokes 
attacks of opportunity. Cover pre-
vents attacks of opportunity. 
attack roll: A roll to determine 
whether an attack hits. To make 
an attack roll, roll 1d20 and add 
the appropriate modifiers for the 
attack type, as follows: melee attack roll 
= 1d20 + base attack bonus + Strength mod-
ifier + size modifier; ranged attack roll = 1d20 + 
base attack bonus + Dexterity modifier + size mod-
ifier + range penalty. In either case, the attack hits if 
the result is at least as high as the target’s Armor Class. 
automatic hit:  An attack that hits regardless of target AC. 
Automatic hits occur on an attack roll of natural 20 or as a result of 
certain spells. A natural 20 attack roll is also a threat—a possible 
critical hit. 
automatic miss:  An attack that misses regardless of target AC. 
Automatic misses occur on an attack roll of natural 1. 
barbarian (Bbn): A class made up of ferocious warriors who use 
inborn fury and instinct to bring down foes. 
bard (Brd):  A class made up of performers whose music and 
poetics produce magical effects. 
base attack bonus:  An attack roll bonus derived from character 
class and level. Base attack bonuses increase at different rates for 
different character classes. A character gains a second attack when 
his or her base attack bonus reaches +6, a third with a base attack 
bonus of +11 or higher, and a fourth with a base attack bonus of +16 
or higher. Base attack bonuses gained from different classes, such as 
when a character is a multiclass character, stack. 
base land speed:  The speed a character can move while unar-
mored. Base land speed is derived from character race. 
base save bonus:  A saving throw modifier derived from char-
acter class and level. Base save bonuses increase at different rates for 
different character classes. Base save bonuses gained from 
different classes, such as when a character is a multiclass 
character, stack. 
battle grid: A play surface marked 
off in 1-inch squares, which is 
used to keep track of the 
locations of creatures and 
characters (represented by 
miniatures figures) during 
combat and other tactical 
situations. 
blind: Unable to see. A 
blind character takes –2 
penalty to Armor Class, 
loses his Dexterity bonus to 
AC (if any), moves at half 
speed, and takes a –4 penalty 
on Search checks and on 
most Strength- and Dexterity-
based skill checks. All checks 
and activities that rely on 
vision (such as reading and 
Spot checks) automatically 
fail. All opponents are consi-
dered to have total concealment 
(50% miss chance) relative to the 
blinded character. 
bolster undead:  A super-
natural ability of evil clerics (and 
some neutral ones). Bolstering 
undead increases the resistance 
of those undead creatures to 
turning attempts. 
bonus: A positive modifier 
to a die roll. In most cases, 
multiple bonuses from the same 
source or of the same type in 
effect on the same character or 
object do not stack; only the highest 
bonus of that type applies. Bonuses 
that don’t have a specific type always 
stack with all bonuses. 
cantrip: An arcane 0-level spell. 
cast a spell:  Trigger the magical or divine energy 
of a spell by means of words, gestures, focuses, and/or 
special materials. Spellcasting requires the uninterrupted 
concentration of the caster during the requisite casting 
time. Disruption of this concentration forces the caster to make a 
successful Concentration check or lose the spell. Successful casting 
brings about the spell’s listed effect or effects. 
caster level:  A measure of the power with which a spellcaster 
casts a spell. Generally, a spell’s caster level is the spellcaster’s class 
level. 
caster level check: A roll 1d20 + the caster level (in the relevant 
class). If the result equals or exceeds the DC (or the spell resistance, 
in the case of caster level checks made for spell resistance), the 
check succeeds. 
casting time:  The time required to cast a spell, usually either 1 
standard action, 1 round, or 1 free action. Spells with casting times 
longer than 1 round require full-round actions for all the rounds 
encompassed in the casting time. 
Charisma (Cha): The ability that measures a character’s force of 
personality, persuasiveness, personal magnetism, ability to lead, and 
physical attractiveness. 
… and sneak attacks a troll