 307
critical roll: A special second attack roll made in the event of a 
threat to determine whether a critical hit has been scored. If the 
critical roll is a hit against the target creature’s AC, then the original 
attack is a critical hit. Otherwise, the original attack is a regular hit. 
cross-class (cc) skill:  A skill that is not a class skill for a char-
acter. Characters may buy cross-class skills at the rate of a half rank 
per skill point, as opposed to 1 rank per skill point for class skills. 
The most ranks a character can have in a cross-class skill is one-half 
of the class skill maximum (3 + character’s level), rounded neither 
up nor down. 
cure spell:  Any spell with the word “cure” in its name, such as 
cure minor wound, cure light wounds, or mass cure critical wounds. 
current hit points: A character’s hit points at a given moment in 
the game. Current hit points go down when the character takes 
damage and go back up upon recovery. 
damage: A decrease in hit points, an ability score, or other aspects 
of a character caused by an injury, illness, or magical effect. The 
three main categories of damage are lethal damage, nonlethal 
damage, and ability damage. In addition, wherever it is relevant, the 
type of damage an attack deals is specified, since natural abilities, 
magic items, or spell effects may grant immunity to certain types of 
damage. Damage types include weapon damage (subdivided into 
bludgeoning, slashing, and piercing) and energy damage (positive, 
negative, acid, cold, electricity, fire, and sonic). Modifiers to melee 
damage rolls apply to both subcategories of weapon damage (melee 
and unarmed). Some modifiers apply to both weapon and spell 
damage, but only if so stated. Damage points are deducted from 
whatever character attribute has been harmed—lethal and 
nonlethal damage from current hit points, and ability damage from 
the relevant ability score). Damage heals naturally over time, but can 
also be negated wholly or partially by curative magic. 
damage reduction (DR): A special defense that allows a creature 
to ignore a set amount of damage from most weapons, unarmed 
attacks, or natural weapons, but not from energy attacks, spells, 
spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. The number in a 
creature’s damage reduction is the amount of hit points of damage 
the creature ignores. The information after the slash indicates the 
type of weapon (such as magic, silver, or evil) that overcomes the 
damage reduction. Some damage reduction, such as that of a 
barbarian, is not overcome by any type of weapon. 
darkvision: An extraordinary ability possessed by some creatures 
that enables them to see in the dark. 
dazed: Unable to act normally. A dazed character can take no 
actions, but has no penalty to AC. 
dazzled: Unable to see well because of overstimulation of the 
eyes. A dazzled creature takes a –1 penalty on attack rolls Spot 
checks, and Search checks. 
dead: A character dies when his or her hit points drop to –10 or 
lower. A character also dies when his or her Constitution drops to 0, 
and certain spells or effects (such as failing a Fortitude save against 
massive damage) can also kill a character outright. Death causes the 
character’s soul to leave the body and journey to an Outer Plane. 
Dead characters cannot benefit from normal or magical healing, but 
they can be restored to life via magic. A dead body decays normally 
unless magically preserved, but magic that restores a dead character 
to life also restores the body either to full health or to its condition 
at the time of death (depending on the spell or device). 
deafened: Unable to hear. A deafened character takes a –4 pen-
alty on initiative checks, automatically fails Listen checks, and has a 
20% chance of spell failure when casting spells with verbal com-
ponents. 
deal damage: Cause damage to a target with a successful attack. 
How much damage is dealt is usually expressed in terms of dice (for 
example, 2d6+4) and may have a situational modifier as well. 
However, damage dealt by a weapon or spell does not necessarily 
equal damage taken by the target, because the target may have 
special defenses that negate some or all of the damage. 
death attack:  A spell or special ability that instantly slays the 
target, such as finger of death . Neither raise dead nor reincarnation can 
grant life to a creature slain by a death attack, though resurrection and 
more powerful effects can. 
deflection bonus: A bonus to Armor Class granted by a spell or 
magic effect that makes attacks veer off harmlessly. Deflection 
bonuses stack with all other bonuses to AC except other deflection 
bonuses. A deflection bonus applies against touch attacks. 
Dexterity (Dex): The ability that measures a character’s hand-eye 
coordination, agility, reflexes, and balance. 
difficult terrain: An area containing one or more features (such 
as rubble or undergrowth) that costs 2 squares instead of 1 square to 
move through. 
Difficulty Class (DC):  The target number that a player must 
meet or beat for a check or saving throw to succeed. Difficulty 
Classes other than those given in specific spell or item descriptions 
are set by the DM using the skill rules as a guideline. 
Diminutive: A Diminutive creature is typically between 6 inches 
and 1 foot in height or length and weighs between 1/8 pound and 1 
pound. 
direct a spell: Direct an active spell’s effect at a specific target or 
targets. Directing a spell is a move action and does not provoke an 
attack of opportunity. 
disabled: At exactly 0 current hit points, or in negative hit points 
but stable and conscious. A disabled character may take a single 
move action or standard action each round (but not both, nor can 
she take full-round actions). She moves at half speed. Taking move 
actions doesn’t risk further injury, but performing any standard 
action (or any other action the DM deems strenuous, including 
some free actions such as casting a quickened spell) deals 1 point of 
damage after the completion of the act. Unless the action increased 
the disabled character’s hit points, she is now in negative hit points 
and dying. 
dispel: Negate, suppress, or remove one or more existing spells 
or other effects on a creature, item, or area. Dispel usually refers to a 
dispel magic  spell, though other forms of dispelling are possible. 
Certain spells cannot be dispelled, as noted in the individual spell 
descriptions. 
dispel check: A roll 1d20 + caster level of the character making 
the attempt to dispel (usually used with dispel magic). The  DC is 11 
plus the level of the spellcaster who initiated the effect being 
dispelled. 
dispel turning:  Channel negative energy to negate a successful 
turning undead attempt by a good cleric or a paladin. 
divine spells: Spells of religious origin powered by faith or by a 
deity. Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers cast divine spells. 
dodge bonus:  A bonus to Armor Class (and sometimes Reflex 
saves) resulting from physical skill at avoiding blows and other ill 
effects. Dodge bonuses are never granted by spells or magic items. 
Any situation or effect (except wearing armor) that negates a char-
acter’s Dexterity bonus also negates any dodge bonuses the character 
may have (for instance, you lose any dodge bonuses to AC when 
you’re flat-footed). Dodge bonuses stack with all other bonuses to 
AC, even other dodge bonuses. Dodge bonuses apply against touch 
attacks. 
domain: A granted power and a set of nine divine spells (one 
each of 1st through 9th level) themed around a particular concept 
and associated with one or more deities. The available domains are: 
Air, Animal, Chaos, Death, Destruction, Earth, Evil, Fire, Good, 
Healing, Knowledge, Law, Luck, Magic, Plant, Protection, Strength, 
Sun, Travel, Trickery, War, and Water. 
domain spell:  A divine spell belonging to a domain. Each do-
main offers one spell of each spell level. In addition to their normal 
daily complement of spells, clerics can cast one domain spell per day 
for each spell level that their caster levels allow. This spell may be 