 312 
feet away with a melee attack roll. Most such weapons cannot be 
used to attack adjacent foes, however. 
reaction: Acting in response to a situation or circumstance 
beyond one’s control. For example, the DM may call for a Listen 
check as a reaction to see if you hear something you weren’t 
specifically trying to hear. 
rebuke undead: A supernatural ability to make undead cower by 
channeling negative energy. 
redirect a spell:  Redirect an active spell’s effect at a specific 
target or targets. Redirecting a spell is a move action and does not 
provoke an attack of opportunity. 
Reflex save: A type of saving throw, related to a character’s ability 
to withstand damage thanks to his agility or quick reactions. 
regeneration: The ability of some creatures to regrow severed 
body parts and ruined organs, repair broken bones, and heal other 
damage. Severed body parts that are not reattached simply die, and 
the regenerating creature grows replacements at a rate specified in 
the individual spell or monster description. Most damage dealt to a 
naturally regenerating creature is treated as nonlethal damage, 
which heals at a fixed rate. However, certain attack forms (typically 
fire and acid) deal damage that does not convert to nonlethal 
damage. Such damage is not regenerated. Regeneration does not 
alter conditions that do not deal damage in hit points, such as 
poisoning or disintegration. 
resistance bonus: A bonus on saving throws that provides extra 
protection against harm. Multiple resistance bonuses on the same 
character or object do not stack. Only the highest resistance bonus 
applies. 
resistance to energy:  A creature with resistance to an energy 
type ignores a certain amount of damage dealt by that energy type 
each time it is dealt. For instance, a creature with fire resistance 10 
ignores the first 10 points of fire damage dealt by each attack. 
Resistance to energy doesn’t affect the saving throw made against 
the attack (if any). Multiple sources of resistance to a certain energy 
type (such as a spell and a special quality of a monster) don’t stack 
with each other; only the highest value applies to any given attack. 
result: The numerical outcome of a check, attack roll, saving 
throw, or other 1d20 roll. The result is the sum of the natural die roll 
and all applicable modifiers. 
rogue (Rog): A class made up of characters who primarily rely on 
stealth rather than brute force or magical ability. 
round: A 6-second unit of game time used to manage combat. 
Every combatant may make at least one action every round. 
sacred bonus:  A bonus that stems from the power of good. 
Multiple sacred bonuses on the same character or object do not 
stack. Only the highest sacred bonus applies. 
saving throw (save):  A roll made to avoid (at least partially) 
damage or harm. The three types of saving throws are Fortitude, 
Reflex, and Will. 
school of magic:  A group of related spells that work in similar 
ways. The eight schools of magic available to spellcasters are 
abjuration, conjuration, divination, enchantment, evocation, 
illusion, necromancy, and transmutation. 
scribe: Write a spell onto a scroll. 
scry: See and hear events from afar through the use of a spell or a 
magic item. 
shaken: Mildly fearful. A shaken character takes a –2 penalty on 
attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks. 
shield bonus: A bonus to Armor Class granted by a shield or by a 
spell or magic effect that mimics a shield. Shield bonuses stack with 
all other bonuses to AC except other shield bonuses. A magic shield 
typically grants an enhancement bonus to the shield’s shield bonus, 
which has the effect of increasing the shield’s overall bonus to AC. A 
shield bonus granted by a spell or magic item typically takes the 
form of an invisible, tangible field of force that protects the 
recipient. A shield bonus doesn’t apply against touch attacks. 
sickened: Mildly ill. A sickened character takes a –2 penalty on 
all attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and 
ability checks. 
silver piece (sp):  The most prevalent form of currency among 
commoners. Ten silver pieces are equivalent to 1 gold piece. 
size: The physical dimensions and/or weight of a creature or 
object. The sizes, from smallest to largest, are Fine, Diminutive, 
Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, Gargantuan, and Colossal. 
size modifier:  The bonus or penalty derived from a creature’s 
size category. Size modifiers of different kinds apply to Armor Class, 
attack rolls, Hide checks, grapple checks, and various other checks. 
skill: A talent that a character acquires and improves through 
training. 
skill check:  A check relating to use of a skill. The basic skill 
check = 1d20 + skill rank + the relevant ability modifier (or simply 
1d20 + skill modifier). 
skill modifier: The bonus or penalty associated with a particular 
skill. Skill modifier = skill rank + ability modifier + miscellaneous 
modifiers. (Miscellaneous modifiers include racial bonuses, armor 
check penalty, situational modifiers, and so forth.) Skill modifiers 
apply to skill checks by characters in the course of using the 
corresponding skills. 
skill points:  A measure of a character’s ability to gain and 
improve skills. At each level, a character gains skill points and 
spends them to buy skill ranks. Each skill point buys 1 rank in a 
class skill or 1/2 rank in a cross-class skill. 
skill rank:  A number indicating how much training or experi-
ence a character has with a given skill. Skill rank is incorporated 
into the skill modifier, which in turn improves the chance of 
success for skill checks with that skill. 
Small: A Small creature is typically between 2 feet and 4 feet in 
height or length and weighs between 8 pounds and 60 pounds. 
sorcerer (Sor):  A class made up of characters who have inborn 
magical ability. 
space: The amount of floor space a creature requires to fight 
effectively, expressed as one dimension of a square area (for 
example, a creature with a space of 10 feet occupies a 10-foot-by-10-
foot area on the battle grid). Space determines how many creatures 
can fight side by side in a corridor, as well as how many creatures 
can attack a single opponent at once. A creature’s space depends 
upon both its size and its body shape. Sometimes also called fighting 
space. 
special qualities:  Characteristics possessed by certain monsters 
(and sometimes characters) that are distinctive in some way. The 
Monster Manual has detailed information on all special qualities. 
speed: The number of feet a creature can move when taking a 
move action. 
spell: A one-time magical effect. The two primary categories of 
spells are arcane and divine. Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers 
cast divine spells, while wizards, sorcerers, and bards cast arcane 
spells. Spells are further grouped into eight schools of magic. 
spell completion item:  A magic item (typically a scroll) that 
contains a partially cast spell. Since the spell preparation step has 
already been completed, all the user need do to cast the spell is 
complete the final gestures or words normally required to trigger it. 
To use a spell completion item safely, the caster must be high 
enough level in the appropriate class to cast the spell already, 
though it need not be a known spell. A caster who does not fit this 
criterion has a chance of spell failure. Activating a spell completion 
item is a standard action and provokes attacks of opportunity just as 
casting a spell does. 
spell failure: The chance that a spell fails and is ruined when cast 
under less than ideal conditions; when a spell is cast to no effect. 
 