A Word From Grimtooth

Greetings, and welcome to my book of Traps.
‘Assembled herein are one hundred and one of my
favorite traps, gathered from the four comers of the
‘earth, and presented for your approval. These traps are
the work of a host of distinguished contributors — each a
dungeonmaster extraordinaire. in short, | feel that you'll
find this to be the most entertaining collection of traps
you've ever laid eyes on,

  
 

Besides, if you dont like my book, Il rip your lungs out.

have organized this volume of traps into easy-to-distinguish chapters. This will better
facilitate inserting them into your own pits and tunnels. With each trap, Ive provided
only the basic mechanics — its up to you to fill n the blanks as to how much damage
‘or what level saving roll seems appropriate for each device. (Hence the generous
“Notes” column I've provided on each page. Pencil in your reactions there.)

To give you a general gauge by which to determine approximately how destructive a
trap is, Ive assigned to each trap a “Deadliness Rating”: a series of skulls printed near
the trap in question. The more skulls you see, the deadlier the trap. You will ind that
the traps in this book will range from causing broken fingers and wounded egos to
forcing almost certain death,

‘Also note that you can increase or decrease the “punch” of a given trap by simply
altering its consequences. This will, f course, depend entirely upon your mood and
circumstances. By filing a pit with an obnoxious-smeliing green dye instead of boiling
«il, you have essentially altered the entire trap — yet the delivery system remains the
same. With a modicum of monkeying around, you should be able to make any of the
traps in this book leap through hoops for the edification and bemusement of delvers
who joumey through your dungeons.

‘Then again, my traps are perfect asis. You'd have to be some sort of pinhead to want
to change them,

‘Thus, without further ado, | hereby present my book of traps. Enjoy it or die, mortal

= Grimooth
