1
A Harvest
of Evil
A short adventure for four 10th-
to 12th- level player characters
CREDITS
Design: Jason Carl
Editing: Gwendolyn F.M. Kestrel 
Cartography: Todd Gamble and Diesel
Typesetting: Sue W einlein Cook
Web Production: Julia Martin
Web Development: Mark A. Jindra
Graphic Design: Sean Glenn, Cynthia Fliege
Special Thanks: Rob B ane and Kristie Crawford, 
for bringing Deskryn to life!
Based on the original D UNGEONS & D RAGONS ® game by E.
Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson and on the new edition of the
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game designed by Jonathan Tweet,
Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Rich Baker, and Peter Adkison.
D&D, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, and DUNGEON MASTER are registered
trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. The d20 logo is a
trademark owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All Wizards charac-
ters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are
trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America.
Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is
prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations,
places, or events is purely coincidental.
This Wizards of the Coast game product contains no Open Game Content. No
portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission.
To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d20 System License,
please visit www.wizards.com/d20. 
©2001 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in the U.S.A.
INTRODUCTION
A Harvest of Evil is a short adventure for four 10th- to
12th-level characters. The adventure can be made more
or less difficult by utilizing any one or a combination of
several methods:
•I ncreasing or decreasing the wizard levels of
the main antagonist, Deskryn.
•I ncreasing or decreasing the number of
Deskryn’s mortal minions.
•I ncreasing or decreasing the number of
townsfolk affected by Deskryn’s domination.
•A dd vampire spawn under Deskryn’s thrall.
•I ncreasing or decreasing Deskryn’s relative
strength.
To tailor the encounter to specific groups of different
levels, refer to Table 4-1 in the D
UNGEON MASTER’s Guide. 
The adventure is set in a tiny and remote commu-
nity located in a temperate forest, but easily adapts to
any similarly isolated locale or region in existing cam-
paigns. A map of a community and graveyard suitable
for this adventure is available for download at
<
http://www.wizards.com/dnd/images/mapofweek
/TheSecretGraveyard.jpg>. If y ou require a
broader geographic setting for the community, a map
of such an area is available at
<
http://www.wizards.com/dnd/images/mapofweek
/TheJourney.jpg>. These maps are reprinted here for
your convenience.
INTRODUCTION
Twin Oaks is a tiny, sleepy little thorp located just
within the sheltering eaves of a great forest. Home to
an extended family clan of farmers and woodcutters,
the community was founded within living memory
and since its creation the inhabitants have known only
peace and prosperity . But just as the gentle breezes of
late summer can transform rapidly into the deadly
storms of autumn, dark times have come suddenly to
Twin Oaks, in the person of Deskryn, a vampire who
finds himself on the run from deadly enemies. 
Just two nights ago, as the good folk of Twin Oaks
prepared for the annual harvest, Deskryn’s castle home
was invaded by an intrepid band of adventurers led by a
noble paladin. Although the party did not achieve its
goal of slaying the vampire himself, they managed to
drive him from his lair and force him to flee into the
night with only the barest fraction of his former
resources in tow. Unfortunately for the good folk of
Twin Oaks, theirs was the community onto which the
