2
vampire stumbled first, and it is here that the fiends
have taken refuge. The little settlement offers the dis-
placed vampire all that he needs: shelter from the hate-
ful light of the sun, a selection of new servants, and a
supply of fresh mortal blood. 
Even in his current condition, Deskryn alone is
more than a match for the inhabitants of the thorp; but
his best hope of survival lies not in con-
quest, but in secrecy . He plans to hide in
Twin Oaks until he believes it safe to
leave; then, he can begin plotting his
revenge on the hateful paladin and her
compatriots who brought him to this
lowly state. As for the citizens of the
thorp, they are all but helpless in the
face of this powerful enemy . The vam-
pire has already slaked his unholy thirst
on one of their number, and his minions
have taken hostages to ensure that the
inhabitants do as they are told. All the
folk of Twin Oaks hope that Deskryn
will take what he wants and then leave
them in peace, but few of them believe
that such hopes are realistic. Until
Deskryn has satisfied himself that the
coast is clear, Twin Oaks—and its
people—belong to him.
ADVENTURE
SYNOPSIS
A Harvest of Evil is a tragedy in progress. The little thorp
of Twin Oaks has just received a most unwelcome visi-
tor: Deskryn, a vampire fighter, whose malice is as great
as his mercy is feeble. He has come to Twin Oaks
because a crusading paladin and her companions
destroyed his haven two nights ago, obliging him to
flee into the howling wilderness with only what he and
a few mortal servants could carry on their backs.
Deskryn plans to hole up in the settlement until he
thinks it’s safe to return to his lair (he hopes that per-
haps the meddlesome paladin didn’t find everything
that was hidden therein). The PCs are not aware of the
vampire’s presence and goals at first, but they soon dis-
cover clues that make the awful truth inescapable. It is
up to the PCs to free Twin Oaks from Deskryn’s grasp.
The adventure begins when the PCs arrive in Twin
Oaks only a short time after the vampire has estab-
lished himself in the community . The action proceeds
from there, with Deskryn trying to avoid attracting the
attention of the PCs while still achieving his goal.
When the PCs learn too much and unravel the secret of
Twin Oaks, the battle will be joined as the vampire
attempts to eliminate those who could bring about his
destruction.
PREPARATION
You, the Dungeon Master (DM), need a copy of the
Player’s Handbook, the DUNGEON MASTER’S Guide, and the
Monster Manual to use this adventure. If you plan to set
the adventure in Faerûn , you’ll need a copy of the new
F
ORGOTTEN REALMS Campaign Setting. 
Text that appears in shaded boxes is player informa-
tion, which you may read aloud or paraphrase when
appropriate. Unshaded boxes contain important informa-
tion for you, including special instructions. Monster and
NPC statistics are provided with each encounter in full.
Monster and NPC statistics are provided with each
encounter in abbreviated form or, where appropriate,
the proper page in the Monster Manual is referenced.
Should you wish to develop the adventure beyond
what is presented here, the best opportunity for doing
so is to focus on Deskryn as a recurring antagonist.
CHARACTER HOOKS
This is a good adventure to spring on your PCs when
they are traveling between other scenarios. It’s very
easy to insert it into an existing campaign any time the
player characters (PCs) are making their way through
forested area en route to another destination. Alter-
nately, Deskryn can be the central antagonist in a
longer story that you devise. Use the following hooks
and rumors to draw the PCs into the encounter.
•A n unexpected event, such as a severe storm
strands the PCs in Twin Oaks. Seeking shelter, they
stumble onto the thorp. It is a welcome sight, offer-
ing hot food and dry beds. They perceive quickly,
however, that something is dreadfully wrong here. 
•A nother, completely unrelated errand or mission
brings the PCs into Twin Oaks. Perhaps they are
traveling from place to place and choose to spend
the night here because it is located conveniently on
their route of travel, or perhaps they have direct
business with one of the inhabitants.
•T he PCs are pursuing Deskryn and have tracked
him to the vicinity of Twin Oaks. Since the news of
the paladin’s victory has spread, a hue and cry has
gone up across the countryside, calling for all
heroes to seek out and destroy the fleeing vampire.
The Thorp of Twin Oaks
This tiny community follows
the rules noted for a town of
its size in the D
UNGEON
MASTER’s Guide in Chapter 4.
Twin Oaks (Thorp):
Conventional; AL NG; 40 gp
limit; Assets 40 gp; Popula-
tion 21 adults; Mixed
(human 20 [95%], half-elf 1
[5%]). Authority figures:
Chief Councilwoman
Vandra, female human
Com4. Important charac-
ters: Wat Nockle Bumor,
male human Com4 (tavern
keeper and councilman);
Lobbur Thoris, male human
Com3 (farmer and council-
man); Jezzor, female half-elf
Exp3 (carpenter).