3
At least one noble has offered a respectable reward
for reliable news of Deskryn’s whereabouts.
THE COMMUNITY OF
TWIN OAKS
Twin Oaks is situated just within the northernmost
eaves of a great forest. A narrow cart track leads from the
edge of the woods three miles to the thorp, winding its
way carefully between the boles of the huge oak, hick-
ory, maple, and birch trees that tower above the forest
floor. The path continues onward past the thorp, plung-
ing deeper into the forest and leading to the areas where
the Twin Oaks woodcutters fell trees to make lumber.
The thorp itself is a collection of only eight build-
ings, arranged in a rough circle and surrounded by a
ring of protective stiles (see 1., below). The community
has cleared approximately three acres of forestland to
the southeast of the town for agriculture. The wooden
houses that are the homes to Twin Oaks’ inhabitants
appear to be ordinary farmsteads, but their craftsman-
ship is better than the average huts and shacks one nor-
mally finds in communities of this size (a testimony to
the skill and dedication of Jezzor, the local carpenter).
THE FOREST
The forestland surrounding the town of Twin Oaks is
predominantly deciduous with little undergrowth.
Presume for the purposes of this encounter that the
season is mid-autumn, or whatever constitutes the
time of harvest for your campaign world, and that the
weather is still clement. If you wish to create a more
pronounced sense of drama or urgency, you can deter-
mine that a severe storm is brewing (or indeed has
already struck).
As the PCs make their way through the woods,
there is a 50% chance that they will encounter on the
path one of the Twin Oaks farmers that he has
enslaved to his will through domination and sent out
into the forest to watch for signs that the paladin and
her party are on his trail. Through the telepathic link
established by this power, Deskryn knows generally
what these servants are experiencing. There are a total
of four farmers out in the woods at any given time of
day or night (in the evening they use lanterns to light
their way). The farmers will treat any encountered PCs
with neutrality, unless the characters state that they
are pursuing Deskryn, in which case they will immedi-
ately attempt to flee back to the thorp in order to warn
their master.
