4
The forest is presumably inhabited by a number of
other creatures, and you should determine which
random encounters best suit your goals for this adven-
ture and your campaign world.
DESKRYN’S ACTIVITIES
Hounded by agents of good and deprived of the
resources to which he has grown accustomed,
Deskryn is a desperate creature indeed. As such he is
at his most dangerous, and is prepared to do whatever
is necessary to ensure his own survival. By day,
Deskryn slumbers in the root cellar of The Plow, the
thorp’s only tavern; he is guarded by one of his retain-
ers and a pair of young farmhands whom he has
enslaved with his powers of domination. He rises each
night after sunset to confer with his minions, slake
his thirst for blood, and plan his next moves. When he
is convinced that the paladin is not following him, he
will move on; but he may well drain dry each and
every inhabitant of Twin Oaks first, leaving behind a
ghost town of rotting crops and dead victims. 
So far he has not striven to create vampire spawn,
but he may change his mind if the PCs exhibit an
interest in the condition of the community . Since he
can’t risk exposure, Deskryn will attempt to stalk and
eliminate the PCs—preferably one-by-one—so that
they cannot bring word of his location to the outside
world.
Deskryn’s Minions (EL Variable
[4-10])
Deskryn managed to flee his former haven along with
five of his minions. This quintet now functions as the
vampire’s bodyguard, enforcers, and servants. They
introduce themselves to curious PCs mercenary soldiers
who are staying at the tavern for a few nights as they
journey southward in search of employment; the tavern
keeper will support this story out of fear of what might
happen to him or his family should he do otherwise.
Elreden, Guthwine, Jethla, and Norbert, human
mercenaries (4): Ftr4, Medium-size humanoids, NE.
Phulbit, human mercenary: Rog8, Medium-size
humanoid, NE. Phulbit is Deskryn’s cohort and entirely
loyal to him.
Use the statistics for NPC fighters and rogues that
appear in Chapter 2 of the D
UNGEON MASTER ’S Guide .
During the day, one of the servants remains in the
tavern’s root cellar as Deskryn’s bodyguard; one of the
remaining four checks on him periodically throughout
the day, bringing food and drink and giving him a
chance to take a short break, one of the remaining
three watches over the hostages in one of the farm-
houses (See area 6.).
Meanwhile, the other two keep an eye on the popu-
lation of Deskryn, making sure that none of them do
