5
anything foolish like attempting to escape the thorp.
They are prepared to kill any of the townsfolk who do
not follow their master’s instructions.
The arrival of the PCs will prove a considerable
worry to the vampire’s guards. But all they can reason-
ably do is stick to their story, try to prevent any of the
locals from giving the game away, and rely on their
master to come up with a plan to deal with the inter-
lopers.
KEY TO TWIN OAKS
11..  TThhee  SSttiilleess
To afford themselves some measure of protection again
the dangerous creatures that inhabit the forest, and that
venture near the community from time to time, the
inhabitants of Twin Oaks have built a ring of stiles
around their homes. Each stile is similar to a section of
wooden fencing, built with X-shaped crosspieces that
support a single, long fencepost. They have mounted
on each fencepost numerous fire-hardened and sharp-
ened wooden stakes, each about 2 feet long. Each stile
weighs approximately 50 pounds, and is fully mobile: It
can be picked up and carried to any desired location.
There are narrow gaps between each stile, large enough
for a single Medium-sized creature to slip through
without harm.
22..  TThhee  PPllooww  TTaavveerrnn
Here the tavern keeper, Bumor, and his family (wife
and three children, though the latter are now the cap-
tives of Deskryn), offers a limited number of home-
brewed ales and beers along with steaming plates of
wholesome local food and forest game at dinnertime.
The fare is simple but filling and sold very reasonable
cost; Bumor also accepts goods and services offered in
barter, a necessary economic adjustment in such a
small community .
The Plow consists of a small taproom, kitchen, and
storage room on the main floor. A narrow stair leads
from the kitchen to the upper story, where Bumor and
his family sleep. A stout wooden door leads from the
storage room down into the root cellar, and it is there
that Deskryn sleeps during the daylight hours. 
At least one of Deskryn’s loyal servants remains in
the taproom at all times during the day, to deter the
locals from entering the root cellar. If the PCs attempt
to search The Plow, neither Bumor nor the vampire’s
minions will interfere. Should they try to gain access to
the root cellar, however, Bumor will implore them not
to put his family in danger; he is so fearful of the vam-
pire, however, that he won’t reveal to the PCs what is
sleeping below his feet. Deskryn’s minions will attempt
to prevent the PCs from gaining access to the root
cellar by force if necessary .
33..  FFaarrmmhhoouussee
The inhabitants have taken to hiding in their homes
day and night since Deskryn’s arrival, and as dusk
approaches they all huddle together in their common
rooms in hope that theirs will not be the home the
vampire chooses to visit next. These folk are so terrified
of what is happening in their once-peaceful commu-
nity that they dare not reveal the secret, even in return
for the promise of aid. They have seen how easily the
vampire can rob a person of her will, and how quickly
he can strike: they know that their only hope lies in
remaining silent and hoping that the monster departs
their community in haste.
This building houses the family of the local carpen-
ter, a female half-elf named Jezzor.
44..  FFaarrmmhhoouussee
See area 3.
55..  FFaarrmmhhoouussee  
See area 3.
66..  FFaarrmmhhoouussee  ((HHoossttaaggeess))
See area 3.
To provide himself with a greater degree of surety
for the actions of the frightened farmers (and knowing
that children are less likely than adults to obey com-
mands of silence for extended periods of time),
Deskryn ordered his minions to gather all the local
children here and hold them hostage for their parents’
good behavior. One of his minions is always on guard
Each of the farmhouses in Twin Oaks is similar to
all the others, built from timber supplied by the
forest and constructed in two stories.
The largest building in Twin Oaks is this two-
story wooden structure with a slate roof. Over its
front doorway hangs a broad wooden sign depict-
ing a plow at rest atop a furrow of freshly turned
earth.
X-shaped wooden fences sport sharpened, fire-
hardened wooden shafts. They mark the bound-
ary between the forest and cultivated lands.