6
in this house, making sure that none of the children —
all of whom are bound and gagged — attempt to
escape. The children are given bread and water twice a
day, one at a time, to minimize escape attempts. If
Deskryn believes that the PCs are strong enough to
defeat him, he has no compunctions about using the
children’s plight as a bargaining chip.
This had been the home of Chief Councilwoman
Vandra and her family . The adults are now staying in
area 9.
77..  SSmmiitthhyy  &&  SSttaabblleess
An outbuilding sheltered on three sides by wooden
walls serves as the only smithy and stables in Twin
Oaks. There are six workhorses here, all of them nerv-
ous and apprehensive at the proximity of the living
dead. It’s clear to the observant (Spot Check DC 12)
that the smithy is idle, and that the forge hasn’t been lit
for several days. The smith, Hedvynn, is like his fellows
hiding in his home. 
88..  FFaarrmmhhoouussee  
See area 3.
The local smith from area 7 lives in this building.
99..  FFaarrmmhhoouussee  
See area 3.
Councilman Lobbur Thoris lives here with his
family . Chief councilwoman Vandra and the adults in
her family have come here because their home is the
hostage site. Vandra is dominated by Deskryn.
1100..  CCuullttiivvaatteedd  FFiieellddss
Sharp-eyed PCs will note that although the season is
right, none of the crops in these fields have yet been
harvested (Spot Check DC 12). A closer inspection
(Spot Check DC 15) reveals that some of the crops are
actually beginning to die on the vine, and that an
immediate harvest is essential to prevent further
spoilage. 
1111..  GGrraavveeyyaarrdd  ((EELL  VVaarriieess  [[00--44]]))
All five of the older graves are marked by weathered
headstones proclaiming their names and the fact that
each of the dead perished within the last 10 years. The
newest grave, however, is unmarked—there has been
neither time nor opportunity to craft a headstone for
the unfortunate person who died at the hands of
Deskryn two nights ago. If the PCs exhume the body,
they will have little difficulty in determining the cause
of death, thanks to the telltale puncture wounds on the
neck of the corpse and the obvious, bloodless pallor of
the skin. Two days after the PCs arrive, the body will
rise as a vampire spawn.
1122..  CCoommmmoonn  GGrreeeenn  ((EELL  1122))
Normally this wide strip of grassy land is used for graz-
ing the thorp’s livestock, and that much is clear to any
PC who succeeds in a Spot Check or Animal Handling
check (DC 15 to identify the signs of grazing animals).
All the cattle, goats, pigs, and chickens have wandered
off into the forest, however, since they were left to their
own devices when the local folk took to hiding in their
homes. Any PC with Tracking may attempt to locate
the larger livestock (DC 14 per animal; finding a lost
animal requires 2d6 hours).
DESKRYN
Deskryn: Male vampire refugee Ftr10; CR 12;
Medium-size undead; HD 10d12+3; hp 96; Init +8; Spd
20 ft.; AC 30 (touch 11, flat-footed 29); Atk +16 melee
(1d6+6, slam); or +17/+12 melee (1d8+7/19–20, +1
longsword), or +16/+11 ranged (1d8+6/x3, +1 mighty (+4
Str bonus) flaming burst composite longbow with +1
arrows); SA Blood drain, domination, energy drain; SQ
Alternate form, children of the night, cold resistance
20, create spawn, damage reduction 15/+1, electricity
resistance 20, fast healing 5, gaseous form, spider climb,
turn resistance +4, undead traits; AL CE; SV Fort +8,
Ref +10, Will +7; Str 23, Dex 18, Con —, Int 15, Wis 16,
Cha 17.
Skills and Feats: Bluff +11, Climb +13, Hide +7, Jump
+10, Listen +13, Move Silently +11, Ride (horse) +16,
Search +10, Sense Motive +11, Spot +13, Swim +11;
Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Combat Reflexes,
Dodge, Great Cleave , Improved Bull Rush, Improved
Initiative, Leadership, Lightning Reflexes, Mobility,
Mounted Combat, Power Attack, Spring Attack,
Sunder, Toughness.
Blood Drain (Ex): Deskryn can suck blood from a
Set away from the town, five older graves, and
one very fresh one, mark the location of the Twin
Oaks graveyard.
This building is larger than the nearby farm-
houses. W ooden walls shelter it on three sides. It
appears to be the town’s only smithy and stables.