7
living victim with his fangs by making a successful
grapple check. If he pins his foe, he drains blood,
inflicting 1d4 points of permanent Constitution drain
each round the pin is maintained.
Domination (Su): Deskryn can crush an opponent’s
will just by looking into his or her eyes. This is similar
to a gaze attack, except that Deskryn must take a stan-
dard action, and those merely looking at him are not
affected. Anyone he targets must succeed at a Will save
or fall instantly under his influence as though by a dom-
inate person spell cast by a 12th-level sorcerer. The abil-
ity has a range of 30 feet.
Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by Deskryn’s
slam attack suffer 2 negative levels.
Alternate Form (Su): Deskryn can assume the shape
of a bat, dire bat, wolf, or dire wolf as a standard action.
This ability is similar to a polymorph self spell cast by a
12th level sorcerer, except that Deskryn can assume
only one of the forms listed here. He can remain in that
form until he assumes another or until the next sun-
rise.
Children of the Night (Su): Deskryn can command the
lesser creatures of the world and once per day can call
forth a pack of 4d8 dire rats, a swarm of 10d10 bats, or a
pack of 3d6 wolves as a standard action. These creatures
arrive in 2d6 rounds and serve the vampire for up to 1
hour.
Create Spawn (Su): A humanoid or monstrous
humanoid slain by Deskryn’s energy drain attack rises
as a vampire spawn (see the Monster Manual Vampire
Spawn entry) 1d4 days after burial. If Deskryn instead
drains the victim’s Constitution to 0 or less, the victim
returns as a spawn if it had 4 or fewer HD and as a vam-
pire if it had 5 or more HD. In either case, the new vam-
pire or spawn is under Deskryn’s command and
remains enslaved until its master’s death.
Fast Healing (Ex): Deskryn regains hit points at 5
points of damage each round so long as he has at least 1
hit point. If reduced to 0 hit points or lower, he auto-
matically assumes gaseous form and attempts to escape.
He must reach his coffin home within 2 hours or be
utterly destroyed. (He can travel up to nine miles in 2
hours.) Once at rest in his coffin, he rises to 1 hit point
after 1 hour, then resumes healing at the rate of 5 hit
points per round.
Gaseous Form (Su): As a standard action, Deskryn can
assume gaseous form at will, as the spell cast by a 5th-level
sorcerer, but can remain gaseous indefinitely and has a
fly speed of 20 feet with perfect maneuverability .
Spider Climb (Ex): Deskryn can climb sheer surfaces
as though with a spider climb spell.
Undead Traits: Immune to poison, sleep, paralysis,
stunning, disease, death, effects, necromantic effects,
mind-influencing effects, and any effect requiring a
Fortitude save unless it also works on objects; not sub-
ject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage,
ability drain, or energy drain; negative energy heals;
not at risk of death from massive damage, but destroyed
at 0 hit points or less; darkvision 60 ft.; cannot be raised;
resurrection works only if creature is willing.
Possessions: +2 full plate armor , +1 large metal shield, +1
longsword, +1 mighty (+4 Str bonus) flaming burst compos-
ite longbow , twenty-five +1 arrows , potion of endurance ,
cloak of resistance +1.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Jason Carl has been alternately a freelance and profes-
sional writer in the RPG industry for six years, and an avid
gamer for much longer than that. He’s written for a
number of game lines, most notably D
UNGEONS &
DRAGONS and White W olf ’s Mind’s Eye Theatre. Currently,
he is the Tournament Director for WizKids Games.