2
A few tribes of humanoids that survived the
devastation tried to use it as a fortress, but the
humans with whom they clashed defeated them
soundly and sealed the entrance with a huge,
round stone to ensure that the tor could no
longer be used as a base. Since then, Hightower
has served as a landmark for travelers in the
know, but it has otherwise been largely for-
gotten. An enterprising group of tomb robbers
once dug an access shaft from the top of the tor
down into the tombs, but its members did not
leave Hightower alive, and only small rodents
and vermin have used the shaft since.
But the electrical storms that have plagued the area
in recent days have been quite severe, and a few weeks
ago, a stray lightning bolt broke open the stone seal. A
few humanoids have since wandered into the tor, and
the ancient bugbear warrior buried in the lowest crypt
has risen as a zombie to deal with these intruders.
Tonight, yet another terrible storm is sweeping
through the wilderness, driving all creatures to take
shelter where they can find it. Hightower looms on
the horizon, and its door is no longer blocked. Will the
PCs dare to enter its silent halls?
ADVENTURE SYNOPSIS
The characters take shelter inside a hollowed-out tor
during a violent storm. While they are camped in the
outer chamber, the storm breaks open one of the inner
doors, allowing access to the humanoid tombs within
the tor. After defeating the various monsters that have
taken up residence there and the hobgoblin raiders
who intend to make the tor their new base, the PCs
encounter the Dark Knight himself—a hobgoblin
zombie interred in the tor’s deepest chamber.
ADVENTURE HOOKS
As DM, you know best how to involve your PCs in an
adventure. In this case, the simplest hook is that the
PCs are driven to seek shelter in Hightower because of
a storm. Using this technique offers a means of getting
the PCs together for the first time if need be, since
they need not be traveling together before the adven-
ture begins. Since Hightower is clearly visible for
miles, characters may even be going in different direc-
tions before the storm hits.
If a random gathering to escape a storm doesn’t
work for your campaign, you can use one of the
following suggestions to draw them into the action.
• The PCs have been asked to scout out Hightower to
see whether any groups of humanoids have begun
using it as a fortification again.
• The characters found a map showing Hightower 
and its environs on the body of a brigand or in an
old chest.
• A wealthy patron has hired the PCs to recover a
family heirloom thought to have been interred with
a long-dead ancestor in Hightower.
pqqqqrs
pqqqqrs
STORM-PEACE
The custom of storm-peace evolved long ago in
response to the sudden and severe storms that
plague this area.  All characters native to the region
should already be aware of it. If you plan to use the
concept of storm-peace in this adventure, be sure
to explain it to the players before beginning play.
The basic concept is that an automatic truce
exists between all individuals and groups who seek
shelter in neutral territory during a lightning storm.
Such weather is simply too dangerous for fighting,
regardless of people’s feelings toward one other.
Storm-peace is assumed to be in effect unless
someone specifically rejects it. Even so, whenever
two strangers meet during a lightning storm, they
often greet one another by asking “Storm-peace?”
simply to ensure that the other knows and respects
the tradition.
Storm-peace applies to any thinking humanoid,
though not necessarily to other creatures. Many
people assume, however, that it applies to any
creature able to ask for it, and many legends tell of
bards singing songs to dragons or other dangerous
monsters during a storm-peace. Any character who
makes a successful DC 15 Knowledge (arcana)
check knows and can repeat at least one or two
such legends.
Storm-peace is not a critical concept for this
adventure, and you can certainly run the scenario
without it as long as you have another way of draw-
ing the PCs together. However, it’s a convenient tool
for bringing together PCs who may not initially trust
each other. An elf, a half-orc, and a dwarf might
normally balk at spending the night in the same
building, but this ancient truce should produce
enough trust to enable such characters to bond.