os

NTRODUCTION

"EVERY EXPL(CET DUALITY (5 AN (APLC UNITY.”

Alan Watts

   
 
 
    
  
    
     
  
 
   
  
     
  
   
 
 
       
     
    
    

There is something inherently exciting about what lies beyond the mortal coil, what awaits us when we die, what lurks in the shadowy
realms of Hell and walks the gleaming halls of Heaven, The barrier between life and death and the rules of reality are tenuous in the
fantasy genre. In our favorite fantas

 

roleplaying game, many worlds lie beyond the standard campaign. Through powerful magic, heroes
step beyond the veil and into the Abyss, taking battle directly to the demons or choosing sides in the interminable wars betwee!
angels. Heroes explore new vis

fiends and
s, endless realms of roiling clouds, blue skies, endless depths or the cold void at the edge of all. The most
powerful heroes might even explore the final homes of the dead, the planes of the gods, worlds of such raw power, the fabric of reality
changes with divine whim.

"THe MMANY-SPLENDORED PLANES

and the other places mentioned abo

 

   

 

n, the Ab re called planes. Each one hosts different possibilities, new creatures,
snusual places, fantastic rewards, and often great peril. As mortals explore these places, using magic, heroism, villainy, ot luck to reach
these impossible worlds, they are bound to interact with the creatures native to them, called outsiders, Outsiders are insatiably curious

   

about mortals, their activities, their customs, and their outlooks, for they have
outsiders envy for their own spirits and bodie!
eutsider encounters, combat may occur, but so may couplings, The resulting offspring from these encounters further spread their

 

platonic duality of mind and body, something the

 

¢ one; when their bodies are destroyed, so too is their spirit. From these mortal and

 

seed, creating planetouched beings: beings who have a trace of outsider ancestry. Aasimar & Tiefing details the most common of these
planctouched beings; the aasimar and tiefling, of cours

   

his book also discusses the half-outsiders who spawn them, pr
Sr building your own planctouched races, new planar-inspired spells, new feats deri
sereresting new prestige c

sents guidelines
d from outsider ancestry, and it offers
lasses to expand planar adventuring in your campaign. And, of course, there are some new planar perils to add
spice to your planar travels.

PLANETOUCHED VERSUS HALE-OUTSIDERS

So, what's the difference betv
Half-outsider characters (half-celestials and half-fiends) are the first generation spawn of a mortal and an outsider. A planetouched character
% one or more generations removed from his ancestors’ initial coupling. Where half-outsider characters inherit many of the spell-like and

sepematural abilities of their magical parent, planetouched characters only

   

some

 

  
  

1n planetouched characters and half-outsider characters? Simply put, the difference is a degree of ancestry

 

develop minor powers

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Robert J. Schwalb entered the freelancing career in 2002, with two books through Mongoose Publishing. Two conventions, a stack of
Sesiness cards, and Chris Pramas’ blessings later—not in that order, of course—he designed the Unholy Warrior's Handbook, co-designed the
Beet of the Fiends, and designed Aasimar & Tiling for Green Ronin Publishing. In addition, Robert bas been involved with a number of

, including Kenzer and Company, sy Flight Games, Goodman ind Alderac
ment Group. Robert lives in Tenne:

 

Necromancer Games, Paradigm Concepts,
see with his wife and pride of cats, busily at work on his next project.

SPECIAL ‘THANKS

good friend, Zak Kendrick, who created Asaya, she aasimar wizard, inspired me to write this book. He has since moved away
in the games is missed. I also want to thank Erik Mona, Aaron Loeb, and Chris Pramas. They breathed life into the Abyss, Gehenna,
2 Hell respectively, providing the foundation to many themes and elements within this book. To Jeff Grubb, on whose shoulders all planar
s stand. To www-planewalker.com for they really keep the planes alive. Thanks goes to my editor, Christina Stiles; there’s nothing like

ideas back and forth at one in the morning. And as always, thanks to my wife Stace, whose support and words of encouragement are
ration I could ever need.

 

  

say

 

OF RENOWN: AASIMAREE? “TEELING
