   

ss

CHADREN Of THE

 

Outsiders are the stuff of creation. They are the extension of
divine will, beings personifying

is lust, the solar justice, and the pit fiend despair.

 

cts of morality. The succubus

   

tensions of
the basic building blocks of the mortal psyche, their physiology
engenders compatibility with most living things, from vermin

and plants to the lowliest of kobolds and the highest of mortal
attainment, When an outsider breeds with another creature, the
offspring features traits from both parents
breed creature breeds with other creatures, spawning new races
and pi

 

Eventually, this half-

   

 

ing on the original outsider’s traits. Planetouched, creatures

 

arising from a union between a humanoid and a half-outsider, are
the basis for this chapte:

   

providing everything you need to know to
play a planetouched character, largely focusing on the tiefling and
aasimar, but also introducing rules for building and playing your own
planetouched races.

VLAXING PLANETOUCHED
CHARACTERS

Planetouched characters have features and attributes that grant them an

el

 

advantage without a commensurate drawba
adjustment to res

 

k. Thus, they require a le

 

ore the balance between them and the core races.

 

All planetouched characters have at least a +1 level adjustment. A level

adjustment, which the DMG and MM address in detail, demonstrates

 

the differences in power between the standard PHB races and possible
character races found in the MM and other sources.

standard

   

‘The aasimar and the tiefling, the
character

xamples of planetouched
ich have a +1 level adjustment. They are suitable for
d of only 1"-level

 

  

2/Jevel adventuring parties. In groups compris
characters, an aasimar has special advantages over the others, creating
a possible campaign imbalance. B of this, your Game Master

m:

 

y not introduce

 

your planetouched character into the game until

 

the party’s average level equals yours. As an optional rule, the GM
may allow you to generate your character normally, but instead of
allowing all of the planetouched traits to begin with, your outsider
traits lie dormant, only emerging when the party's average level
reaches a suitable point for your planctouched character's inclusion
(2* level, in other words).

 

Essential

 

your character begins play as a human (minus the
skill points and feat) who manifests an unusual appearance, When

 

you earn enough XP to advance to 2* level, your planetouched
traits emerge, providing you all the chosen planetouched’s racial
features. Finally, you remain first level, needing to earn an additional

RACES OF KEVOWS: AASIMARGE

 

amount of experience points to achieve 2nd-level,
character's level adjustment.

Or TONAL, Leva, ADUS MENT REMOVAL

One campaign option for deleting the +1 Level Adjustment for
planetouched characters is to have them begin play in one of the
NPC classes outlined in the DMG, thereby balancing their special
abilities with limited class abilities and bringing them into closer
ord with 1st-level characters.

as dictated by your

 

 

 

Please consult your GM before assuming this optional rule is the
campaign norm.

PLANETOUCHED
CHARACTER BACKGROUND

Once you work out how to bring your planetouched character into
the game, you should consider your character's background, Here are
some good questions to pose about your character:

* Who were your parents?
s ‘Were you conceived in love or in hate?

How long ago was the outsider blood introduced to your
family line?

® Were you an outcast child or beloved for your other-
worldly charm? If your tiefling has freakish physical traits,

your parents may have cast you aside, left you exposed to

 

the elements to wipe away all trace of your existence. On the
other hand, an aasimar’s inherent goodness, perfect features,
and good graces probably provided a childhood of ease and
comfort, likely to a loving and doting family.

 

 

¢ details help to define your character's personality, creating
ona for you to play, rather than just another cookie-cutter
The planctouched archetypes below should gi
ideas for defining your character.

PLAVETOUCHED ARCHETYPES

You may use the following archetypes as guidelines for fleshing out
your outsider character. They should serve as a guide to roleplaying,
From the basics presented in each, you get an idea of what
affectations might surface during play

  

 

you further

 

 

TIEELING
