 

 

 

GRIMTOOTH'S DUNGEON OF DOOM
A.K.A.
THE TOMB OF EVINROOD
THE WATER WIZARD

 

Salutations, fellow character crunching, creation compacting, creature
crippling, cognoscenti of chaos. It is time once again to enter that entertaining
world of mind boggling mayhem that makes the operation and maintenance of
dungeons such an attractive career. Come with me once more into the world of
traps!

Over the last fifth of a century I’ve been been scouring the known (and
to a degree unknown) world to supply you with individual traps. Each has been
attractive in it’s own charmingly gruesome way. They have, however, been like
a double handful of unset gem stones. They flash with brilliance, but they are
alone; isolated from the striking settings that will enhance their natural diabolical
luster.

In previous tomes you have come to enjoy the thrill of knowing in advance
just what cleverness the hapless boobs that blunder into your arrays of my devices
of doom will need just to survive. But in the end you have had to fall back on the
usual run-of-the-mill cast of monsters, orcs, golems, and such like less clever, and
more fallible minions. This will change.

After years of globe trotting for your edification and delight I have finally
unearthed (literally) a true gem. Yes, after all this time of serving you tidbits
piecemeal I now can offer you a feast. Built from the ground up, a dungeon
consisting entirely of TRAPS!

Once characters enter here they will be thrown back on that one resource
that you and I know they possess in shortest supply: their wits. Rest assured you
can use each trap and mechanism separately to punch up the sagging “kill ratio”
of your local family maze or warren, but for the first time ever you will now have
access to a true TRAPS DUNGEON, that in and of itself is complete and fully
functional.

As I am eager to begin, let me just step aside and bid you enter into the
wonderful world of the Ancient Wizard Evinrood, and his intricate Tomb.

 

 

Page 3
