SOME BACKGROUND...

The search for the perfect traps dungeon is rooted in antiquity. It involves a duel
between two of the greatest wizards of their time. A time so long ago that all records have
been lost. Until now. (If we kept records on something other than vellum scrolls and other
such primitive materials we would probably find out that the “ a time lost in antiquity’ is
in reality something like two or three hundred years ago.)

On acliff overlooking the sea, I discovered (with very little help) a great Capstone.
Upon closer inspection it was found to be covered with an inscription. The letters that made
up the message were so faded that it was only with great care that the legend was deciphered.

   
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

It read as follows: =

This was the Final resting place
of Evinrood the Water Wizard. He did
battle with Selgolub the Master of
Deamons inthe year of the Bitter Wyvern.
He failed to over throw Selgolub and was
Accursed. Herein lies the master Wiz-
ard; Savior of Karthaki, friend of the
dwarves, and kobolds, Master of the
Elements. Here too lies his greatest
treasure. Disturb this slumber at your
peril.

After prolonged research more
was found about the legendary Evinrood
by consulting an archivist sorcerer who’s
specialty is restoring ancient records.
(This is a wizard who spends his time
restoring old scrolls hoping one will
contain a map to some old castle site,
dungeon, or tomb. These he sells to
hapless fools through a “broker”. This is
considerably safer than exploring them
himself.)

It seems Evinrood’s chief claim
to fame was a feat of conjuration he
performed at the behest of Shillary
Lockwood, Chateline Of Karthaki. (As
with all wizards it was more than likely
a large “gold” behest.) During the third
year of the Reign of Terror, brought on
by the Death Empress of Khazan, attacks
into the reign around Karthaki were rife.
Evinrood destroyed one such expedi-
tionary force out of Kharkadan. He used
his control of the earth elementals, and
the aid of the dwarves and kobolds to
drive the horde to the banks of the river
Dajja. There on the banks of the river he
summoned a myriad of waterelementals.
The attacking horde was dragged into
the river and consumed by the elemental
force. Thus ended the Battle of Three
Plains. (The archivist/wizard will gladly
sell youa map to the site for a “small fee,
so good luck, you'll need it.”)

 

 
 

Page 4
