 

DUNGEON
ea OF

DOOM

 

MECHANICS:

In this book, there will be many comments about the likelihood (usually given in both
percentages and Level - e.g. 10% (L1) chance of making it across the pit) of success or failure.
The percent chance is a straightforward and generic way to determine the odds. You, as the
gamemaster, can either use it directly by rolling a 100-sided Zocchihedron or two 10-sided
dice, or you can use the numbers to come up with whatever “saving throw” fits into your own
game system. Naturally this is modified by any bonuses that a player has for that particular
activity. The level number is just another comparison of the difficulty of an action.

Level 1 means anyone but a raw beginning character should have little trouble with this.
Level 2 means that beginners should experience a serious risk of failure, and even experienced
characters should have a chance to miss.

Level 3 is seriously dangerous to beginning characters, experienced characters should be a
little nervous, and even mega-characters should have at least a possibility of missing.
Level 4 should be almost out of the question for beginners, dangerous to experienced
characters, and somewhat dangerous to the mega-characters.

And soon. Remember in all cases, that although Grimtooth has set this adventure up for you,
YOU are now the gamemaster and can adjust things as you think best.

 

There are also references to the amount of damage that occurs, listed as the number of D6 (the
universal six sided die) that could be rolled to determine the number of hits to be taken off of
however many hits it takes to kill the characters. If thisis not appropriate for your game system,
you can come up with your own numbers for one of these, and then use these numbers for
comparison.

We have also included a chart in the back of this book listing some suggested numbers for
several game systems. These numbers are not authorized by any particular company, but have
merely been suggested by one of our playtesters.

ol Te

   

 

 

 

f
“ATYPICAL DOOR SET-UP_IN
EVINROODS (NOTE THE HOLES).”

 

 

Page 5

 

 
