The Entrance:

Evinrood has the treasure, and the Delvers get the shaft.

 

The entrance to the Tomb of Evinrood is located on a grim, dark moor overlooking
the sea. Soaring sea birds seem to cry his lament, as well as a forlorn warning to the advancing
party of delvers. .

The actual location is marked by a large graven capstone set almost flush to the
ground, in a collar ring of stone work. On the surface of the capstone is a message, carved
so long ago that the letters have faded almost to illegibility. With care the carving becomes
clear:

This is the last resting place of EVINROOD the Water Wizard
He did battle with Selgolub the Master of Daemons
In the year of the Bitter Wyvern, Sixth year of the Reign of the
Death Empress
He failed to overthrow the daemon lord and was Accursed
EVINROOD, Savior of Karthaki, friend of the dwarves, and kobolds
MASTER OF THE ELEMENTS THEMSELVES
Rests herein with his great treasure disturb them at your peril

If the promise of treasure and what is clearly an undisturbed Tomb complex doesn’t
inspire your prospective victims they are in the wrong line of work. So it is without further
ado I submit for your approval the first trap. (Being as it is, before the party actually enters
the Tomb, this will serve to separate the sheep from the goats in any party of delvers.)

Trap #1: “When I do this I Get this tingling sensation!”

The capstone is 10 feet in diameter. It is set tightly enough into the stone collar that
itis just possible to insert a crowbar, or such like implement of destruction into the gap around
the edge. (Note: If the party is foolish enough to use sword points they have a 10% chance of
breaking their weapons. (L1)) With suitable grunts and groans they will be able to pry the stone
up high enough out of the stone collar to grasp the edge. With the applied strength equal to
that of 8 average men they should be able to move the stone aside.

If they try to peek in around the stone before they attempt to move it the darkness will
not permit them to see any great detail. That is unless they lift the stone high enough which
will, of course, set off the trap.

As the party lifts the capstone clear they will be treated to one of the cleverest non-
magical “Zap” traps available.

The underside of the capstone is covered with a thin layer of copper plate. This
plating goes all the way to the edge. If the stone is lifted by hand it will be impossible todo
so without touching this copper plate.

In the center of the underside of the capstone is an axle on which is mounted a 5 foot
copper-coated lodestone disk in such a way that it will spin freely. (Don'task me wherehe got
a lodestone - at least it is non-magic.) Out from the axle is fixed a long thin copper brush
making a radius of the copper disk and just touching it. Wound around the axle is 200 feet
of a fine elfish rope that is resistant to the ravages of time. This rope passes over a pulley also
mounted on the bottom of the capstone, and thence on to a 20 pound stone weight set in an
alcove carved 4 feet below the lip of the stone collar. Also fastened to the same peg as the
pulley is a thin piece of thread which runs with very little slack to aring bolt setin atiny wedge
that prevents the 20 pound weight from falling into the long dark shaft below. (See illustration.)
There is one last little item, fastened to the bottom of the capstone. On the opposite side from

DUNGEON

 

GREATEST DUNGEONS

OF TRAPS EVER DEVISED!)

AND ITIS ALL OURS TO
DOWITH AS 1 WISH!

 

Page 7
