 

DUNGEON

OF

 

DOOM

Page 8

the pulley there is, fastened by a copper pin, a thin copper thread. This thread trails into the
depths about 7 feet where it is fastened to the wall with a copper peg, this is the “ground” wire!

When the hapless party lifts the stone, the wedge is pulled free allowing the 20 pound
stone to plummet into the abyss. This turns the copper disk at a fairly good clip against the
brush on the capstone’s copper plated bottom. A static electric spark of fair proportions will
be generated and short out through the fingers of the delvers! The charge should be fatal to
any character with a below average constitution, or any one with a heart condition. (Right!
A delver with a heart condition, be still my beating heart!) It should knock those with average
constitutions on their kiesters. Those who are stout of heart, and great of wind and limb might
just hang on despite the jolt of electricity, but remember there is a 20 pound stone dropping
200 feet involved here, the jerk as it hits should cause even the greatest “hero” to loose his
grip and drop the capstone.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Note: Leather gloves will mitigate the effect of the charge, metal gauntlets will
have the exact opposite effect, and remember the jerk of the stone at the end.)

The beauty of this is that the stone is now harmless, but the party need not know this.
They can be presented with this asa sign that the power of Evinrood reaches beyond the grave.

I’d rate this babe at Two Skulls, but the potential comic value is great.

The second trap is located at the bottom of the shaft. The party will be taken
somewhat aback by the capstone trap, after they have plucked up enough courage to finally
displace the capstone they will be confronted by a deep, dark, seemingly bottomless shaft
opening into the ground. If they have any wits at all they will find at their disposal a 200 foot
length of elfishrope (very strong, light, and obviously not subjectto the ravages of time.) Keep
in mind there is a 20 pound weight fastened to the end. The first thing the party is likely to
do is drop the stone sans rope into the abyss. If they do or drop such other items as they choose
they will, after a brief pause, hear a splash. A descent will be necessary.

At this point it is important to remind you, my cohort in chaos, that this Tomb is not
lighted in any fashion. It behooves you to make sure the delvers are aware of this fact. Even
with the light of lamps or torches it will be dim in most circumstances. Even at the bottom
of a shaft open to the sun there is precious little light 225 feet down! Don’t let the party take

J
