DUNGEON
OF:

it for granted there is “enough light” from “other sources” to see by. Some member of the party D O oO M
will have to be carrying a torch, lamp, or providing some kind of magical “witch light”.
Remind them frequently, the reasons for this will be clear at a number of points.

 

 

Trap #2: “Some bottomless pits are deeper than others.”

If the party can come up with 225 feet of rope they can move on to the next part of
this torturous endeavour. (Keep in mind if they use the elven rope they will be 25 feet short
and will have to climb back up the rope to get more, and then back down again.)

The “bottom” of the shaft is filled to a depth of 4 feet with water, this despite the fact
that the capstone was very tight, and the shaft coming down showed no obvious leaks. As the
intrepid delver on the end of the rope reaches the bottom he will be confronted with a set of
two 5 foot wide 10 foot tall, graven stone doors, half submerged under the water. They are
inset into the wall. If he is able to sense magic he will note a low level spell on them, if not
he will note they arelocked somehow so that his strength is unequal to the task of opening them.
A magic user with a skill sufficient to open a locked door will have to come down and help
out. With any luck the mage will come down the same way as everyone else...head first!

The trap is operated by the unlocking of the doors, which are in fact just two stone
slabs carved by dwarvish craftsmen into the wall of the shaft. The lock in reality holds the
floor of the shaft in place. When the unlocking spell is performed, a latch is released which
permits the thin stone covered metal plate that is the floor to plummet into the depths a further

75 feet down!
This trap is rated at Two Skulls, A high level wizard might be able to fly, or levitate
himself outof danger. Furthermorea delver with foresight enough to tic himself with the rope

will only drop a short way and bump his nose on the wall of the shaft. There is insufficient
carving on the doors to grasp. There is a 30% chance a delver might save himself by grabbing
the dangling rope. (L3)

The final descent of 300 feet overall, or an additional 75 feet from Trap 2, will bring
the party toarubble filled bottom with the same 4 feet of water init. (Notto mention the corpses
of those who fell victim to the previous trap.). They will again be confronting a 5 foot wide
10 foot high set of dwarvish crafted doors which radiate a low level of magic.

There should be a fair amount of consternation among the delvers when they find
themselves in the same position as at the doors above. This will resultin a number of
precautions being taken, which when the magic is employed to “unlock” the doors again will
prove needless.

The doors will open into a room 40 feet wide and 30 feet deep. The water from the
shaft will spill out over the floor. The walls are covered with stucco and painted witha variety
of the scenes of Evinrood’s greatest successes. Not more than 6 feet from the wall opposite
the entrance is araised stone pedestal, upon which rests, undisturbed an ornately carved coffin
of pale stone. The designs on its surface are geometrical only, not scenes.

At this point it is only fair to tell any magic users they sense an uncomfortable
“background magic” inthisroom. This will continue through out the dungeon. Itisnotenough
to impair their ability to sense magic or operate in any way, but itis there. It is analogous to
turning on a light in a room that is brightly lit by sunlight, it doesn’t add measurably to the
ambient light in the room, but it is there. This is the maintenance spell, set by Evinrood to
keep the daemons which the curse sent to claim him at bay.

Above the coffin is a roundel also painted on the stucco. In it the first character who
enters sees what is clearly the images of him or herself dying in anumber of hideous fashions!
The images will change as a new character enters the Tomb. They each will see the images
of themselves dying in a variety of different ways. This is a great opportunity to apply
psychological pressure on the delvers. The images can show a character transfixed with
arrows, ground into hamburger, sliced into convenient bits, drowning, burning, or in the grasp
of dimly defined creatures who are ripping him apart. Limit yourself to trap results actually
available in the Tomb. Furthermore if one or more characters have already died in the first
two traps show their images too after everyone else has entered, but their image will be as the

S Page 9

 
