 

DUNGE
OF

ON

 

DOOM

Page 10

party saw them at the point of their demise. This will serve to further reinforce the point. If
you link the traps available and the delvers you may eventually actually match up a victim
toatrap. At that point you can recall the image to the minds of the party. Or better still when
the party enters the environs of a given trap you can indicate that this looks like an area
remembered from the images this will serve to make party members hesitant to rush headlong
into a “foredoomed” situation.

Trap #3: “...And You Thought This Was Going To Be Easy.”

The coffin itself is carved so deep that a cursory examination will not reveal the trap
that it contains. The coffin is 9 feet long, 4 feet wide and 4 feet high. It is topped by a heavy
stone lid that must be lifted torgain entrance to the coffin. Itis also enchanted witha high level
(L13) spell that negates certain types of magic. Prolonged experimentation will show the
negated spells to be spells of detection, and that it has a radius of 5 feet in all directions from
the coffin.

Within the coffin there is a concealed blade, 2 feet up from the base of the pedestal.
The blade is concealed by the intricate carving on the sides. The blade is 3 and 1/2 feet long
and pinned in the center of the coffin on an axle. It is spring loaded so that when the lid is lifted
it will swing free through an arc if unimpeded by a very stout object. (Hint: a leg, neck, arm
or fleshy what have you willnoteven slow itdown. Armour, ifitisof less than excellent quality
may be insufficient. (An indestructible wizard’ s staff, or very stout sword blade would be fine
brakes for our little slicer.)

What the party hears as the blade swings through it’s arc back into the opposite side
of it’s grove isa “click”. This is what makes this trap so appealing: inside the coffin is another
spring set to go off again if the lid is lifted.

The chief failing of this trap is that it only attacks the front of the coffin. A human
should receive severe cuts to his legs while a dwarf might be beheaded! Assess hits and damage
accordingly, keeping in mind you will want to know where every one is standing, and how
tall they are.

I’drate this trap at two skulls; one for the second swing of the blade unless the party
is cripplingly stupid!

Inside the sarcophagus are the springs for launching the blade, and a suitable
collection of dust. .

(To some this dungeon will seem to lack treasure but a canny delving party with
brains bigger than walnuts will recognize various articles as having significant value. The
entrance trap yielded the elfish rope and several pounds of copper, while the coffin will yield
the party a very serviceable sword blade, and two stout springs, items that are both difficult
and expensive to manufacture in any quasimedieval world. If they can’t broker these toasmith
or wizard on their journeys they aren’t half trying. Keep an eye out for other “intrinsic”
treasures, and keep in mind if the party doesn’t pick up on them it is their loss!)

One last note: on the surface of the coffin facing the wall opposite the entrance is a
small irregularity in the patterns. This irregularity when pressed will open the double doors
concealed behind the stucco on this wall. The deviation in pattern will require a dedicated
search to detect. Keep in mind that these doors cannot be revealed magically due to the magic
on the coffin which inhibits spells of detection.

At this point the party will be left with a room that seemingly has no exits. Spells
of detection on the walls to the right or left will reveal the presence of doors behind the stucco
and frescos. Obviously acts of random violence will also reveal the presence of stonework
behind the plaster so they can be detected manually by chipping off the stucco.

Trap #4: “Ye Olde Digit Dicer.”

Once the doors have been discovered, and the plaster removed to reveal their size,
(10 feet tall and 5 feet wide doubled as with the entrance.), one other thing will be apparent:
there are three finger-sized holes about waist high on the right hand door. This will seem
clearly an unlocking or drawing open mechanism.
