 

Keeping in mind the doors can be
unlocked magically with no harm to any-
one, anon-magic user may choose to insert
afinger, or three fingers into these holes. In
this case the center one will depress a
mechanism that unlocks the door. The
other two will depress mechanisms that
release small steel blades that will slice off
fingers thatare not armoured. (Leather will
not help; they must have bronze, or steel
gauntlets.) This trap isa toss in, justto keep
the party on it’s toes. The series will be
repeated on every door unless otherwise
indicated, but the “correct” finger hole will
vary. (I think Evinrood must have gotten a
quantity discount on these.) Irate itat One
skull dropping to zero unless the party is
very, very dim. Any finger sized object
may be used to unlock the door, metal being
preferred if you wish to keep the device
used intact.

The doors in either case swing inward revealing a pair of stair cases. The one on the
right leading down while the one on the left leads up. The stairs are 50 feet in length,rising
or descending 50 feet to similar sets of double doors. There is no landing, the stairs stop flush
to the doors.

Ifthe party elects to explore the one to the rightcontinue onto thenextchapter, RIGHT
FACE! If the party presses on to the left, page ahead to the chapter entitled LEFTWARD HO!
And if by some chance the party has found the entrance behind the coffin then page on to the
chapter entitled THE PATH LESS TRAVELED!

   

SIDEVIEW

RIGHT FACE!

Trap #5: “Just When You Thought It Was Safe...”

The stairs are a trap: any delver who can’t figure this out deserves the old “step on the
stairs and have them turn into a slide” bit. This is exactly what happens when the first weight
of any substantial amount is placed on the upper surface of any of the steps. (Yes, I know this
is so old the dinosaurs stopped laughing at it, but just wait.)

After the first “victim” (or whatever “weight” that was used to trip the “trap”) reaches :

the doors at the bottom the “real” trap will be set. The weight of the first slidee will depress
the end portion of the slide. This activates a second pressure plate in the center of the slide.
When the next member of the party attempts to descend the slide, either by sliding (which is
to be wished) or rappelling down on arope, he will depress this plate, releasing a spinning disk
of metal ona moving arm from the right hand wall 2 and 1/2 feet above the surface of the slide.

 

 

 

 

 

 

DUNGEON
S108

DOOM

Page 11

 

 
