 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 12

Inside the wall is an hydraulically driven piston (see sketch) that presses against a
shaft that has the metal disk mounted to it by an axle pin through it’s center point. Around
the axle is wound a short stout rope fastened to the stone wall at the back of gallery. As the
shaft advances the rope unwinds imparting a spin to the metal wheel. The wheel, 20 feet in
diameter, is pushed through the stucco into the corridor. Spinning merrily it should cut through
anyone in it’s path. There is a 30% chance a character might be able to lay prone out of its
way (L3).

This trap is rated at 3 skulls for surprise and lethality. (A case could be made for
having the blade dig into the opposite wall and stop short of hitting all the space 20 feet up
and down the stair/slide way so it is not 100% efficient. Unfortunately!)

Once this trap has been tripped the corridor is safe enough if the party avoids the
blade. It will be very difficult to loot this trap as the blade is very large and of an inferior grade
of metal, sharp but brittle.

At the bottom we come to the doors, with their three holes again. This time the hole
on the right is safe, just in case the party has gotten careless or cocky.

Trap #6: “The Sand Gets In Your Eyes.”

Once you have bested the door you enter a room 20 feet wide by 50 feet long by 10
feet tall. Like the entry room the walls are covered with frescos. In this room there is a slight
difference, the coffin is missing and in the far left corner is a small stack of dust covered sacks.
The cloth is old and time worn so that some of the contents can be seen from the entrance.
There is the fatal yellow glint of gold!

By now it should be clear to even the densest of your hapless victims that Evinrood
“...vants to bealone...”, but the lure of gold is a powerful magnet for the average delver. Given
time they will enter the room.

If the party enters the room in a mass without taking precautions, by the time they
reach a point 40 feet from the door they will activate a rocker panel in the floor that will cause
the door to close. (The rocker panel is a slab 5 feet wide that stretches across the tomb from
one wall to the other. It is balanced ona simple 1/8 th. of an inch “ridge” in the floor running
the width of the room. When stepped on this switch will descend with an audible “click” to
the side the delver has stepped on and thus activate whatever device is described, in this case
a door closer, and a locking device.) ‘

There will be a moment of tension as the party braces for the worst. You can even
expect some frantic efforts to reopen the door. Let them try: the finger holes on this side will
be in a different order than on the opposite side of the door, and if they rush they could do
themselves a great disservice. What they will find in the end is that the door will reopen easily,
but every time someone steps on the rocker panel the door will close and lock again. They
may give up in frustration, or they may leave something or someone blocking the door. In
any event there is little else that will happen dealing with the door. This is all a ruse to lull
the party into falling into the actual trap!

Upon close inspection the bags will be exactly what they seem. Old, time decayed
canvas bags, leaking fine piles of gold dust from anumber of burstseams. There are no obvious
strings attached, the bags will be sitting there free for the taking. There is no magic on the
bags.

With even the most cautious bunch someone will eventually attempt to move the
bags. It is at this point that the fun begins. First the tripping mechanism is operated by the
lifting of even one of the bags. They are resting on a pressure plate, the weight of even one
of them being removed will cause the panel in the center of the room to open.

From the center of the ceiling will drop an Air Elemental. Along with the elemental
this panel will release a room full of sand which is also stored in the chamber above. This
chamber is 20 feet wide, by 20 feet deep, and 35 feet in height. The elemental has been
entombed there for centuries, and is measurably upset. It will attack the party in the only
fashion open to it. By swirling the sand that is falling, and coincidentally the gold dust from
the relatively fragile bags, into their faces, and against exposed skin surfaces. This attack will
have little butnuisance value and is no real threat to the delvers, but you don’ thave to tell them
