 

that. They will attempt to counter attack but unless they have enchanted weapons or attack
with magic spells they will have little effect. (Magically the elemental is fairly formidable
and should notbe dismissed by a simple spell or low level dispersal. The object being to divert
even a powerful wizard for a few moments.)

The chief purpose of the elemental is to disburse the gold dust all about the room,
and primarily to blind the party with a mini-sandstorm, while the room fills with sand!

I rate this room at only two skulls, because it is not primarily lethal (unless some
delving ditz happens to be standing under the panel when it opens and gets several tons of sand
onhishead!) The party can ignore the elemental and make a break forthe exit across the room,
but the entrance door should be blocked with piled sand in a very shorttime. The delvers may
be able to thrash their way through the sand heap butonly with considerable hard labor, a word
that is seldom used to describe the goals of the average delver.

They also could rightly conclude that there is an exit in this corner and actively seek
it. There is a door behind the stucco in this comer, (see map) with the ever present finger trap.
This door can be found by revelation magic, or actively chipping at the stucco. (If you are
one of these weak-kneed dungeon masters, who is averse to weeding out the weak and feeble
among the delving parties, you could have some of the stucco flaked off over time, “revealing”
the exit to even the densest of delvers.)

In any event the party will almost certainly have lost the gold dust. If they go back
into the entrance chamber, return to the options there. If they press on then they will find
themselves in the clutches of the next trap.

Trap #7: “You Bring These Things On Yourself.”

As the party exits Trap #6 they will find themselves at the head ofa stair, 50 feetlong,
10 feet wide, and 15 feet tall, leading down.

The stair is plated with metal, and the edges of each step are very sharp angles. The
stairs are not dangerous if the party steps carefully. This trap is released by any of the steps
in the last 10 feet of the stairway. Once pressure is put on any of these surfaces the entire stair
isreleased, and begins at once to act like a giant treadmill. The weightof the delvers will force
itdown, and their natural instinct will be to back up. This is reinforced by the fact that there
is a blank wall at the bottom of the stair and the sharpened stair edges are slipping under it
atan ever increasing pace. The moving stair will act like a giant rotary cheese slicer if anyone
stops at the bottom and can’t climb the wall. Even if they can, what is the alternative to the
entire party stacking up at the bottom? The most likely result will be the party attempting to
run back up the stair at a pretty good clip. This will buy them some time, but not as much as
they think. :

As the pace increases the
party will begin to notice that the
ceiling seems to be getting closer.
‘The stairway/treadmill is attached to
a mechanism in the wall that drives
a huge gear which in turn lowers the
ceiling.

I rate this puppy at three
skulls. There are only good results
that can be anticipated here for the
aspirant trap master. Either the en-
tire party is thinly sliced for conve-
nient serving, or they are mashed to
apulp by theceiling. Ifthey by some
magical method reach the top they
are trapped by the sand, and finally if
they somehow jamb the stair the
entire mechanism comes toascreech-
ing stop and everyone is dumped in
a heap at the bottom of the stairs.

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

DUNGEON
— OF

DOOM

 

 

Page 13
