 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

 

 

Page 14

(Bruises and bumps at least, broken bones for the unlucky, say a 10% chance (L1).) Keep in
mind that the stairs are very sharp and that even average gauge armour plate will be slivered
away in thin layers by a large enough blade, (the stair is solid and 10 feet across) driven by
multiple delver power, and gravity! The blocking device will have to be formidable in
definition. (There area variety of “indestructible” magical items that will serve well, oraone
foot thick block of solid stone or metal...right - let’s just check the old backpack!)

The ultimate reward will be to escape by opening the next door, behind the stucco
on the wall at the bottom of the stair, probably revealed by the various bashings on the surface
caused by the stair trap. It will be the usual three finger hole lock release door. (There is a
slight difference, there is only one 10 foot tall 5 foot wide panel of the usual double doors, this
is so the ceiling lowering mechanism can be fit into the end of the stairway.)

Trap #8: “Going Down?”

This area is just a little length of corridor, a kind of small room with a door at the far
end. The “room” is 20 feet long by 10 feet wide, by 10 feet high. The door at the far end has
no visible locking , or opening mechanism, itis blank stone panel, beside which hangsa gold
chain with a leather wrapped grip on the end.

The party will try everything to open the door except pulling the chain, Eventually
they will have managed to pull, bash or dig away the stone door, to reveal a metal plate beyond,
and a runic inscription in an ancient version of the common tongue which reads, “Pulle Thye
Chain!”

If the party decides to do so the floor of the
room begins to descend; slowly at first but accelerat-
ing. If you lower itat just the right speed the party will
stay with it for a fairly long time. At 15 feet down
the the floor will trip a release that drops the steel plate
door into a slot in the ground and the entrance to the
next room will be open. However the floor will keep
going down and accelerating, like the out of control
elevator thatitis. (Although Evinrood haschosen tolet
the victims of this trap drop what seems like forever,
you can keep this up for hundreds of feet waiting until
one of the party members says something really dim
like, “Gee, when are we going to reach the bottom?”
and then have the the floor crash to the “bottom” with
results appropriate to a fall of the corresponding dura-
tion.)

A wise party will leave most of it’s members
on the stair, and possibly tie a rope to the hapless boob
picked to pull the chain. In any event the door to the
nextroom is opened by the action, as the floor will drop
even if the delvers don’t. Rescue from the falling floor
isalways possible with increasing degrees of difficulty,
if the entire party doesn’t go down with the floor.
Evinrood had this shaft made virtually “bottomless”.
Nothing ties up a group of goody-goody delvers like a

forlorn voice echoing up from this shaft begging for rescue, as the possibilities become more
and more unlikely, and difficult!)

This trap has a variable rating depending on just how foolish theyparty allows itself
to be. Two or three skulls. Incidentally the gold chain is worth about 1,500 g.p. if the party
has not forgotten about it entirely by now.

In any event once all the nattering and fooling around is over the party will in all
likelihood press on to the next room and...
