DUNGEON
=H OE

 

DOOM

Trap #9: “If At First You Don’t Succeed Try Try And Keep On Trying!”

This room is a masterpiece of the trapsters art. It has all the elements of a continuing
classic. There is slapstick, Rube Goldberg devices, low comedy, and a continuing punch line.
Old Evinrood really had it in for whoever he expected to come along trying to dig him up, I'll
give him that.

The room seems to be 50 feet wide, by 60 feet long, by 10 feet in height. The floor
is made up of 5 foot by 5 foot colored tiles in alternating colors of blue and green. The tiles
are glazed and shine faintly. The’
beate seen to be set in ib floor SIDEVIEW; CROSSBOWS
separately. (This sort of thing drives
delvers nuts, they are convinced that
every one will set off some trap or
plummet into space. Every tomb
should have tiled floors.)

There is magic on the far
wall. It is faint but can be detected
from the entrance. The walls are
covered by the usual stucco covered THREE ROWS OF GIANT CROSSBOWS
in frescos. Keep in mind that the far
wall will be only dimly lighted by a
lamp or torches, so the images are
indistinct at best.

The party will eventually
enter the room. Regardless of the
} precautions taken, at a point 30 feet
from the far wall the magic will take
effect. The magic is in the frescos
painted on the far wall. This senses
the approach of a party and at a
distance of 30 feet triggers the first cee EN

hi f the trap. i
sas Behind ihe wall coversuby 19 DR
OF 3 VOLLEYS|
athin veneer stucco are ports through
whichcan fire giantcrossbows. There
are eight poles mounted in the stone
and on each at various heights are
three large crossbows, aimed in vari-
ous directions. (The crossbows are 5
feet across, and by themselves hit
with a 7 D6 attack. They have a
nominal value of 200 g.p. each.)

The lowest bank of these,
located 2 and 1/2 feet off the ground
release their bolts through the plaster t WALL DROPS
and into the room. Every member of WHEN COFFIN.
the party has a 20% chance of being A IS OPENED
hit! (L2). (There are only eight
possible hits, so if there are more
than eight who fail portion out the
damage to the eight who miss by the
largest margin.

Therelease of the firstcross
bows triggers the next phase of the
trap. The iron door that closed off
this room from the falling floor trap

    

Page 15

 
