 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

Page 16

 

begins to rise back into place. The stone wall of the secret room to the right of the door drops
into the floor. This acts on a geared mechanism lifting the iron door back up, and releases the
torrent of water stored in the chamber. This room is only 20 feet wide by 20 feet deep, but
itis over 35 feet tall, this will yield enough water to fill both rooms to a depth of 4 feet.

The entire party will be buffeted aboutas the torrent of water is released, and the water
hitting the far wall has the effect of causing the next bank of crossbow bolts to fire one minute
after the the wall gets wet. This bank of bows are set at 4 and 1/2 feet in height. Any normal
human, or human sized characters are in jeopardy, and any of the shorter types will be bobbing
about like so many floating pumpkins conveniently exposed. Once again there is a 20%
chance of a party member being hit (L.2), up to eight as described above.

In the back of the newly created alcove is acoffin on apedestal. Itis in sucha position
that lid is 5 feet above the floor and as such 1 foot above the surface of the water. When the
lid is opened it releases the wall on the room on the opposite side of the entrance door. There
is nothing in the sarcophagus, but note that its lip is above water level: this will become
important soon.

The leaks through the end wall caused by the holes from the first bolts will have
lowered the water level slightly. This will be compensated for by the water and its inhabitants
from the second newly created alcove. This room is only 20 feet by 20 feet by 10 in height
but it contains a school of piranha kept in stasis by a magical field until this very moment.
Needless to say if any member of the party has open wounds, say from crossbow bolts for
example, the hungry little fish will be more than happy to administer euthanasia. Attack value
should be high for wounded delvers and those with exposed flesh in large amounts. (Ever
notice how female warriors are usually shown wearing two old V.W. hub caps and the bottom
half of a wire mesh bikini? This is one of those situations where more is better.) Any delver
who is quick of wit, (yes I realize this is a contradiction in terms) will be able to jump into the
sarcophagus and thus buy time to plot out how not to feed the fish. (For my money Evinrood
slipped up here. I would have added a bed of nails or better still spears in a false bottom for
just such an ocassion, but I guess dying old archmages can’t think of everything.)

Once the fish have been overcome, the party will notice there is another coffin in
the back of this adjacent alcove. Once again opening it triggers yet another flight of crossbow
bolts. These are 6 and 1/2 feet above the ground and all aimed in the direction of the left hand
coffin. Those in the left alcove will note that the next crossbow volley is aimed so as to
concentrate on this alcove. Party members positioned in this alcove have a 30% chance of
being hit (L3). Anyone in or near the right hand alcove will not be menaced at all. Unlike
the right hand coffin this one is full of silver ingots making it impossible to hide in to escape
the projectiles,

There are 15,000 silver pieces weight of the metal in the coffin (1,500 g.p. value.)

A note: after the second flight the party may have decided to “look into” this wall
with extreme prejudice. If so the third trap may be thwarted, as the wall is easy enough to bring
down. Butif the party doesn’t dismantle the crossbow traps, but rather goes on and opens the
next coffin they will still launch at any attempt to open the left hand coffin.

The third volley of crossbow bolts will certainly provoke an assault on the far wall.
Itis easily broken down with applied force revealing yet another chamber 20 feet deep, as wide
as the main room and as high. The sarcophagus in the back of this room is by far the most
ornate yet discovered. It is of carved red marble, and rests on the floor. The water laps almost
toit’s lip. Itis hard to see what the carving consists of buta tactile inspection of the sidesreveal
the pattern to be perpendicular lines, all the way around from base to the edge that supports
the lid. A magic user who is able to detect magic will be able to tell the party that there is
a magical presence in the sarcophagus but it is passive.

If the lid is lifted there is a thump inside. When it is removed the coffin will appear
empty. If any member of the party pokes the bottom, or jumps in it will set off the last trap
in this room.

The sarcophagus contained a fire elemental, resting on a false bottom, when the lid
is lifted it dumped the elemental into the base of the sarcophagus waking it out of the
enchantment that contained it. This will also set the false bottom to operate the next part of
the trap. When pressure is applied to the false bottom it causes the panels in all the carved
parallel lines on sides to open and water to rush in on the now awakened and angry fire
