 

elemental. The elemental is tough but this much water will destroy it. The resultant steam
explosion should be a thing of beauty! The shrapnel caused by the explosion blowing
out the segmented sides of the sarcophagus will be as dangerous as an attack by the elemental
itself would have been. Carnage should ensue. Distance from the point of the explosion will
mitigate the attack with those at over 20 feet distant being only nominally effected.

The elemental had an attack value of 8D6 so the resultant shrapnel will have the same
striking power up to 10 feet from the coffin, at this point it will be halved. The effect will be
halved again at 20 feet.

Given the multiple nature of this trap, and the manifold opportunities for death or
disability I rate ita four skuller. After all...”it keeps going and going, and going...”

The resultant explosion will in all likelihood chip enough plaster off the real back
wall of this room to reveal the locations of two new doors.

If the hapless delvers have not had enough. Press on to the next trap.

   

Trap #10: “We Must Be Getting Close I Smell Smoke”

Opening the door to the right will lead the delvers
into a short stairway leading up. It is 20 feet long, 10 feet
wide, and an average of 10 feet in height. At the far end is
adoor. In stead of the usual three finger hole door this one
is made of cast bronze.

Located in the center of the door is a large wheel.
It will seem that to open the door you will need to turn the
wheel. If some hapless delver does this the trap will will
begin to operate.

In a cistern above the “door” is located a pool of
lead kept molten by the “kid brother” to the fire elemental
in the room below. His only task is to keep the “hot side
hot...” The door itself is filled with hollow tubes, and while
it is quite solid, and thick (5 inches) there are enough of
these tubes to carry a substantial amount of this molten lead
through the door. This is exactly what will occur when the
wheel is turned. The wheel turning will also result in a
panel at the base of the door opening to allow the tubes
within the door to drain out onto the stairs!

The fun is really under way now. The party on the
stairs is being treated toa wonderful hot foot. The lead that
reaches the water in the lower room will start to create a
sauna effect in the stairwell. The first boob that tries to turn
the wheel will find out that the entire door is red hot
including the wheel, making it crippling to try to turn it off
without insulation.

This is a one skull trap, no death but much dishonor. The beauty of this trap is that
the wheel is like a combination lock, you have to turn it in a direction that will activate the
trap, then turn the trap off, (at risk of if not life then at least limb.) and then tum it in the “on’
direction again to open the door. The second time you turn it “on” it will open.

Trap #11: “Finally Our Just Reward!”

The room is entered left of center. Itis 20 fee wide, 30 feet long and 10 feetin height.
All eyes will be drawn to an elaborate coffin at the end of the room. It is made of an ornately
carved green stone, and seems to rest on a pedestal consisting of three steps leading up to the
actual coffin. The steps are 3 feet high, and the sides of the sarcophagus are an additional 4
feet high bringing the top of the whole affair within 3 feet of the ceiling.

The figures on the sides of the elaborate coffin are not the usual geometric designs,

 

Page 17
