 

DUNGEON

OF

 

DOOM

ADDING WEIGHT INSIDE COFFIN
RELEASES PISTONS A’ REDUCING
WEIGHT RELEASES PISTON 'B’-

Page 18

but a series of images of a man growing up. There are scenes of his youth, adolescence, and
young manhood on the side facing the center of the room. There are no signs of slits, openings,
or any sign of trap doors or hidden compartments on the outside of the coffin. Even magic
detects none of the above! This box is entirely safe, (No, really, would good old Grimtooth
lie to you?) By now the party would not be sure if they had a written guarantee, but they will
eventually draw on hidden reserves of greed and open the sarcophagus.

Within they will find their wildest dreams come true. Peering into the container they
will see a layer of what seems to be fine gold bricks. They are in fact lead bricks plated with
gold. Only adwarf with the dwarves affinity for metal work would be able to tell, and he would
have only have a 50-50 chance with bonuses depending on his metal working skill.

The party will be somewhat dismayed that the level of the gold seems to be below
the level of the container itself, asif it were in the stepped pedestal instead. The pocket in which
the gold is resting conforms to the interior dimensions of the sarcophagus. To reach the first
layer of bricks a member of the party will have to lean over the side, and at that the gold will
be 4 feet down. Evena long-armed human-sized character will have some difficulty touching,
let alone lifting outa sample. The easiest way to remove the ingots is for one member of the
party to get into the sarcophagus and hand out the gold. Again there should be some wrangling
over just who the sacrificial lamb...er...lucky volunteer will be. This sort of thing is almost
as much fun as watching the traps actually operate. Eventually they will either come up with
a way of lifting out the gold, or one of their number will enter the coffin. This is when the
real fun begins.

3 TOP ij

wes

   

 

STAs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This trap is activated by weight, or rather the absence or presence of same. Ifa brave
member of the party jumps in the weight on the plate below the gold is increased and one part
of this trap is set off. The sides of the “pedestal” are really concentric boxes of stone that when
released are forced into the ceiling by hydraulic pressure from below. (See diagram.) This
will trap the character in the sarcophagus within three feet of stone, and subject anyone
standing on the stairs to the threat of being crushed into the ceiling. Any member of the party
standing on the stairs will have a 30% chance of being crushed (L3).

If the party has a method of lifting out an ingot, either by having a long armed fellow
lift it out by bending WAAAAYY over, or by magic they will lighten the weight on the plate
in the bottom. This has the effect of releasing the bottom of the sarcophagus, gold and all to
smash into the ceiling! The effect on the guy reaching in when the ingot is lifted will be
interesting. There isa40% chance he will be able to getclear; hopping up, out, and backwards,
bent nearly double, leaning into a hole, and holding an ingot of heavy metal. Wow! It
could be an olympic event, the Up, Out, and Back 1/2 Bent Ingot Toss!

Once the gold is mashed into the ceiling, along with what ever other grisly objects
it picks up on the way, the party can work the bricks free. There will be a gross (144) of the
lead-filled ingots. The gold plate is nominal perhaps as much as 250 g.p., but the lead too has
