 

 

amarket value, at one copper piece per weight unit, or about 14,400 copper pieces. (or another
144 g.p.)

Irate the outside pedestal stairs a two skuller, easy enough to get off if you are quick.
Of course if the delvers don’t have a way to tunnel through the 3 feet of stone, the poor boob
trapped inside the sarcophagus is gone from lack of air eventually. Now the plate inside the
coffin rates four skulls for the contortion value alone. Keep in mind that even if the outside
pedestal trap has been tripped the inner trap is still intact. If the party is resourceful enough
to get back in to the trapped man, and he hands out enough ingots the inside trap will activate.
Or if he gets out and tries to take an ingot with him when his feet leave the bottom, snap! Or
if he gets out then leans in to snag an ingot...well you get the idea. Loads of fun for the party!

Trap #12: "Climbing The Stairway to Heaven."

Opening the door to the left has a profound effect. Once the party has operated the
three finger mechanism the door will swing out, dumping a billow of fog into the room. The
fog seems harmless, and after the initial surge it becomes a steady ankle high flow. What the
tomb robbers will see is what looks like a water fall of fog billowing from the top of whatseems
to be stairs, At the top is a white light of unusual brightness. The light is of coarse magic in
nature, and seems to be set above a door at the top of the stairs. The only way the party can
tell there are stairs is because of the peculiar rippling effect the fog takes as itnears the bottom,

The stairs are 40 feet long and 10 feet wide, with a 15 foot high ceiling. Once the
party overcomes it's initial fear of the fog, they will head up the stairs. (Cries of, "Run it's a
corrosive acid!",or"Yieee! Poison gas!" are enough to make me wish itreally was, butenough
of that wishful thinking.) Keep in mind there isa blinding lightall around them from the ceiling
above the door. When they come within 10 feet of the door at the top, then the fun will begin.

The fog is being generated in a deep steel-lined pit. (30 feet deep and 10 feet in width
and breadth.) At the bottom of the pit, gratings permit a warm, slow inflow of water from the
subterranian river. The sides are cooled so that a fog is sure to boil up out of the pit almost
atall times. Oh my! Did I forget to mention the spikes. How inhospitable of me.

There is nothing but the use of their native intelligence thatcan save the lead members
of the party from falling into the pit. (I'd be suspicious, but then [know Evinrood's rep.) Unless
the victim(s) is equipped with inpenetrable armor there is little hope for survival.

The hi-jinks supplied by the party as it tries to rescue the fallen member and the
tribulations of the delvers as they attempt to open the door at the top will provide additional
amusement.

This is a three skull trap, good but don't be surprised if a particularly canny delver
anticipates it.

The door at the top is the usual three finger hole type, but it will provide some
problems. You see, it opens outward. (Now me, I'd provide it with a spring, but then I'm not
anice fellow!)

Trap #13: “Water? What Water, I Don’t See Any Water.”

This trap is a little on the complicated side, but deliciously devious in the end. The
room is “L” shaped, 50 feet along the outside of the “L”, and 20 feet wide, to two 30 foot walls
on the inner side of the “L”. The ceiling is 10 feet high.

The entrance is off to the left of the stem of the “L”, on the base. Off to the right,
down the stem of the “L” is...yes another coffin! The walls are covered with the usual stucco,
wonderful stuff, really, as you have seen it can hide a multitude of surprises. The magic users
in the delvers party can sense no magic.

The party will eventually approach the coffin. As with the previous coffins, this one
is stone, ornately carved with geometric patterns and 8 feet, by 4 feet, by 4 feet high. If the
sarcophagus is opened it will set in motion the trap mechanism for thisroom. By now the party
may have decided they don’t want to open any sarcophagai they come upon because this brings
them only problems. C’est la vie! The trap will also be activated by stepping on a pressure
plate to the left of the entrance at a point, on the floor in the center of the wall at the “toe” of
the “L”. In either event once tripped the nature of the room changes rapidly.

DUNGEON
SO

DOOM

Page 19

 
