 

DUNGEON
OF
D oO oO M The first thing the party will notice is the sound of a terrific Crash as a 10 by 10 foot
block of steel-plated stone drops down into the doorway. If the party left one of its number
in the entrance as a guard, or to keep the door open, there is a 30% chance he will be crushed
(L3) survival based on Luck or Speed. This will effectively seal off the room.

The next thing the party will notice is that the room is descending into the ground.
All that is, except a 20 by 20 foot alcove at the “toe” of the “L”. Any that take the time to look
into the sarcophagus will notice that it is full of silver ingots. (There are 58,000 s.p. weight
of them. (About 5,800 g.p. value at the current rate of exchange.) A point to take note
of at this time is that any reasonably agile character will have no trouble jumping into the
alcove created by the dropping floor in the toe of the “L”, but this will become increasingly
difficult as the floor drops.

 

   

 

 

 

The floor will be dropping at a fair clip. In 5 seconds it will have dropped 40 feet,
at which pointit will lock into place, anda trap door 20 feet wide and 10 feet deep, in the ceiling
above the coffin will open. By now the room is well below the surface of the underground
lake. (See main map) Hundreds of tons of water, and the denizens therein will pour into the
chamber.

Now to reach the alcove will require some pretty fancy footwork. There is a 70%
chance of a successful attempt (L3) dependent on the character’s resourcefulness. If a
character is armored he must get free of the armor or this will lower the chances of success
slightly (60% chance, (L4). (There ARE a few characters that have the requisite strength to
swim in heavy armor, curses!) If the characters have some mechanism that allows them not
to drown and thus they stay put and defy the water, there are denizens of the aforesaid lake
that have to be dealt with as well. (See Leftward Ho section for denizens of the water list.)

For those who do make it to the alcove the show goes on. Those already safe will
get to watch the struggles of those who have failed. The ones who think they are clever will
be waiting for the water level to get to the point they can clamber into the alcove. This will

Page 20
