 

mean fending off the attentions of one or two of the lake dwellers just for sport. For these
swimmers all is not as it seems. When the water reaches a point 4 feet below the lip of the
alcove it will set off another trap. A pin is released on a rocker panel in the floor of the alcove.
As soon as the weight of a delver trying to climb out is put on the edge it will tip setting off
the last part of the trap.

From the ceiling will descend, through the stucco, and from wall to wall aclear quartz
panel. The edge of this panel will be razor sharp. It8 descent is not outrageously fast (Quartz
being relatively fragile to drop it would risk breakage.) The character tripping the trap has
a90% chance to scramble into the alcove (L1). Any others trying to enter the alcove will have
80% chances (L2). If they hesitate the chances will drop by 10% (1 level) per turn, until the
wall drops into contact with the floor. (Delvers with severe judgement problems can elect to
stay in the rising water with no ADDITIONAL peril beside the risks already encountered.)

Compassionate delvers may wish to try breaking the quartz wall, but it will soon
become apparent why this is not a survival oriented decision. The water level rises past the
edge of the alcove and will eventually afford those in the alcove with a wonderful floor to
ceiling fish tank. This will come complete with views of their struggling friends, those in
armor, and those who either by luck or decision decided to chance the rising waters.

Atthis point there are two obvious weakness of this trap from My pointof view. First
the quartz wall doesn’t leak. Too bad Evinrood really falls down here, nothing puts the edge
ona victim like a time limit. The other is less obvious but even more critical. Those still in
the water filled portion of the room could just try to swim out once the pressure equalizes.
(There are still the lake dwellers but if the delvers last this long they probably aren’t that
concerned by the fish.)

Irate this baby at two skulls, too many ways out, lots of entertainment value, but not
lethal enough.

Trap #14: “Things Get All Screwed Up.”

The alcove will seem like a death trap; a dead end (I love that phrase.) Under the
stucco, the walls are steel plated stone. Through the quartz wall is a lake bottom. Oh woe
is the poor delvers. The answer to their prayers is just above their heads. It may not occur
to them for some time but a magical spell will show the outline of a trap door in the ceiling.
Chipping the stucco of the ceiling will do this as well but my guess is the average gang of
would-be tomb robbers will have to nudged into looking into the ceiling for an escape.

Once the trap door is found it is easy enough to open. All you have to do is figure
which one of the three finger holes is the release and gravity will do the rest. What will be
revealed is the bottom of what seems to be a 5 foot round tightly spiraled stair way. The eager
delvers can with some small contrivance reach the bottom step. Upon doing this they will find
that the stair will slowly “screw” itself into the room. The banister of the stair turns in grooves
carved into the wall until it reaches the floor. This will allow easy access to the ladder and
release the trap that waits above!

The center pole of the stair extends into the ceiling at the top of the shaft up which
the stair leads. As the stair case is lowered into the room the center pole will be pulled out
of a chamber containing a heavier than air gas. This gas will slowly descend down the shaft
as the delvers begin their walk up it. The shaft is 50 feet high, and by the time the delvers are
well along, they should encounter serious breathing difficulties. Death does that to you.

Now there are those light weights who have some misplaced sense of mercy for the
hapless dolts that would steal away the loot of defenseless old high level wizards. Iam not
one of these, but if at this point you wish to continue the show, orextend some sort of misplaced
“mercy” you could make this a harmless sleeping gas, or let the “deadly” effects of Evinrood’s
gas only apply to those in the alcove at the bottom where the gas collects, rendering those on
the stair temporarily unconscious. For my money I say let’em croak. The next bunch will bring
gas masks.

The stairs will seem to dead end (There’s that phrase again.) atthe top. But with the
judicious use of a boot the delvers will emerge through the thin sheet of stucco-covered rock
into a corridor. (See main map.)

The stairs are four skulls if used correcity, but far less if the gas effects are limited.

DUNGEON
08

DOOM

 

 

Page 21

 
