 

Trap #16: “What Goes Up Must Come Down!”

Once the party has negotiated the door opening mechanism they are confronted by
a 10 foot wide stair case going up 50 feet. The ceiling near the doors is 60 feet high tapering
as the stair rises toa mere 10 feet. At the top of the stairs can be seen, faintly in the light of
your torches or lanterns, a set of doors that are different from the usual stuccoed stone doors,
found throughout the tomb. From here it is hard to tell but they may be wooden.

The delvers attention will hopefully be focused on the doors at the far end and as such
they will not be thinking of a trap on the stairs themselves. It is the stairs that form the trap.

The design for these stairs was so homey it took me back to my very roots. Oh, how
Tlong for those early years, the innocent naivete of the delvers, the lovely gasps of shock as
they stumbled from trap to trap...sigh. In TRAPS ONE there was a stair trap, the fabulous
FOLLY FLIGHT, designed by the fabled trap master John R. Greer. This stair trap seems to
be a variation on the FOLLY FLIGHT theme.

The stairs are hinged at the base, and when a delver, or delvers reach a point 25 feet
from the bottom the weight will pass the balance point and cause the pins at the center point
torelease. Unlike John’s trap, “Evinrood’s Variation” causes the entire length of the stair
to fall back against the near wall. This reveals the stairwell for the deep narrow room itreally
is, The chamber thus formed is 110 feet deep, (50 feet to the ceiling, and an additional 60 feet
to the floor.) and 50 feet across to the doors near the roof on the far side. The room is still only
10 feet wide.

Filling the bottom of this trap with spears, spikes, or acid excreting slugs would
provide a wonderful counterpoint to the delvers plunge to his likely demise. Evinrood just
left the floor plain old stone, trusting the fall alone to do in would-be tomb robbers. Perhaps
he did not want to discourage the parties too much.

The delvers will not be putoff for long by thistrap. Luckily itis only partone. Almost
immediately one of the delvers will think of trying to shoot a rope over to the doors on the far
side, The plan may be to use this rope to rescue the remains of their fallen comrades, or more
likely to gain access to the far end of the room. The doors on the far end of the room consist
of heavy wooden beams bound by old rusted iron bands. They have no hinges and are only
wedged in place, a fact that the delvers will not be able to tell across 50 feet of space by torch
light. A stout tug, such as one that the party might give to see if the arrow has seated will not
be enough to pull the doors free. In fact the weight of one average delver will not be enough
to dislodge them, but once more than the weight of one delver is applied the doors will come
free. Granted this is just an elaboration, but picture the looks on the faces of your victims as
they attempt to cross over, hand over hand, or better still climbing up from the floor below
as the doors come free and plummet down upon them.

Eventually the party will find a way into the room behind those wooden doors,
probably by climbing up the far wall using pitons and ropes like mountain climbers. Having
invested this much time, and effort they will have to go on! Dungeon delvers are like that.

If this trap is operated as is, itis a three skuller, but if embellished with spears, or acid
pools it can go all the way up to four!

Trap #17: “The “What’s Up?” Dock.”

This room exhibits an immediate difference from others so far seen. Itis 80 feetlong
and 30 feet wide, with a 15 foot tall ceiling. The most obvious difference is the fact that at
the far end of the room there is a 30 foot by 30 foot wooden pier, opening into a cavern, the
inky depths of which are impenetrable by feeble torch light. The pier itself is just out of clear
view in the flickering light. The sounds of running water are very clearly audible; in fact the
roar of moving water can be heard echoing from inside the room.

The party of delvers will sense no magic in thisroom. The floor is tiled with large
green and blue 10 foot by 10 foot tiles, looking very much like a giant checker board.

Any mean spirited attempt to use magic to see if there are trapdoors in the floor will
result in the entire floor glowing dully fora few moments, then fading. That should really stir
the delvers up.

DUNGEON
—=— OF

DOOM

 

 

Page 23
