 

DUNGEON
OF ———

DOOM

Page 24

Any attempt to walk on the tiled floor will show it to be quite substantial, and yielding
no “nasty” surprises. The party can jump up and down on the tiles if they like and nothing
will result. As the party gets nearer to the pier they will be able to see that it is made of large
wooden beams, old and rotten with the passage of time. At points they will be able to see dark
water 15 feet below the pier through sections that seem to have just given way to decay.

In the center of the leading edge of the pier, touching the tiles, is an old trap door 10
feet by 10 feet square. Set in the center of this wooden panel is a ring bolt over 1 foot round,
and covered with corrosion. The party can, if it chooses, open this door from the tile side
without risking the rotten old pier. If any member of the party steps onto the pier, on either
side of the trap door, or tries to open the trap door, all the tiles in the other part of the room
flip over. The tiles are giant panels locked in place until the trap is tripped. Once released
they are free to pivot on iron shafts that penetrate them through the center. This whole trap
operates like one of the child’s bean bag tossing games. (See Diagram)

The net result will dump any member of the party without the ability to fly into an
arm of the grotto at the far end of the room. There is almost no other way, except flight, to
escape this trap. A lucky jump in all but one direction will either place the delver on another
tile...flip-flop splash! or back out the entrance and...zip-splat! an 110 foot drop. Avictim may
try to reach the “safety” of the pier, but there is only a 40% chance (L4) of success, Atany
rate most of the party should end up in the drink. ps? Oo

  
     
 

At this point I should describe the reasons why delvers won't enjoy their refreshing
dip. This underground river system is part of the vast network of uncharted rivers that run
under the plains of Khosht. The reasons for it’s remaining uncharted are twofold. The first
reason is the concentrations of gold, and loot-like substances are too widely scattered to make
it attractive to large scale delving operations. The second reason is the existence of hideous
denizens that have bred herein thriving on the residual magic and corruption leaking down into
the water table from the innumerable dungeons located above the river system.

In this pleasant little tributary can be found:
® Pack Piranha, hordes of ravenous little beasties that can strip an elf to his ear rings
in seconds. (These creatures travel in large groups and should be considered VERY tough.)
Albino Cave Sharks, often over 8 feet long, a ghastly white in color, huntby motion
sensing, so if you fall into the water remain absolutely still and you will be just food...er...fine.
(These creatures can be found in groups of 3 to 8 (1D6+2) and are individually Tough. If the
odds are 3 or 4 to one even superhuman delvers will find themselves in dire straights.)

Electro-Squids, these cute little fellows pack a wollop that would do justice to a
lightning bolt. Being small and relatively feeble they either grab hold of prey and zap it for
