 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 26

Semitrap #18: “Boating Has It’s Ups And Downs.”

We left our party foundering around in a pleasant little grotto under the “flip-flop
tiles”. You may at this time call upon any of the denizens listed above to keep them entertained
and sit back and watch the ensuing carnage. However if you desire, out of some misplaced
sense of “fair play” to permit this farce to continue you can allow the party to see that the
wooden trap door in the plank decking overhead leads down to a water level area of wood
planking 10 feet wide and 30 feet long. On this planking are pulled up two boats,

Ifthe party survives its dip, and climbs up onto the lower pier, or if they had “braved”
the upper level of the seemingly rotten pier, opened the trap door, and climbed down the stairs,
they may inspect the boats.

They will find two flat bottomed boats each 3 feet wide and 10 feet in length. The
boats will seat 3 comfortably on thwarts in the bottom, 4 will fit with some scrunching, and
5 ina pinch although the boat would then be quite crowded. They are old, and made of wood,
but they seem quite substantial. There is also a set of oars with each boat.

 

 

     

OLD PIER

 

FLIP TILE ROOM

 

 

 

The fun begins again when the party finally decides to put the boats into the water.
With no load in them the boats will float well, high and very dry. Once the tomb robbers
actually enter the boats there will be afew moments when “surface tension” will keep the water
from rushing in. Eventually the delvers will begin maneuvering the boats around heading out
into the pool away from the pier.

This pool is dark, and clear, in the torch light you can see flickering shapes that make
its inky depths seem less than inviting. There are 5 huge, much-eroded stalagmites that thrust
out of the water at various points. The stalagmites are various sizes around 2 to 3 feet in
diameter at the water line, talking into account the erosion. A member of the group could climb
out onto one if they so desired. The pool is approximately 80 feet wide by 60 feet length. The
ceiling at this point is out of easy sight overhead.

Once the group is under way the occupations of the “crews” should be, one with a
torch, and very likely one, possibly two with the oars. It is at this point we will give the third,
forth and in fact any others in the boat something very important to do: bail!

Boats are generally kept in a wet condition (this happens when you spenda great deal
of time in the water.) When the wood is wet it swells and keeps the spaces between the planks
tightly sealed. These boats have lain here high and very very dry for thousands of years.
The old dry wood of the boats has shrunk causing the seams between the planks to open. When
the boats start moving around this exerts a variety of lateral forces on them thus breaking the
surface tension that was only just barely keeping them afloat. The water begins to literally
pour in.

The boats will begin to fill quickly once the party has moved away from the pier. If
the boat has only 3 people in it they can make it to one of the stalagmites . If they try for the
pier there is a 80% chance (L2) of success. If the boat has 4 people in itthey have a80% chance
