 

(L2) to make the stalagmites. A 4 man crew will have only a 60% chance (L4) to make the
pier. If there are 5 in the boat the chances of making even the stalagmites drops to 60% (L4),
and to make the pier a dwindling 40% (L6). Any more than 5 in a boat and the pier is out of
the question; it is a wonder they didn’t go down without the leaks. A boat with more than 5
will have only a 40% chance (L6) of making one of the stalagmites.

If the party makes it back to the pier they can look around. If they go back up to the
upper pier through the trap door they will find that it is more substantial then it seemed and
if they check out the ceiling in the center of the left hand wall (see diagram) they will find a
trap door. Opening it they will find a pair of Elfish canoes. (Elvish I thought he wash
daid!) These are similar in construction to the birch bark canoes of certain American Indians,
and being crafted by the elves they will float as long as they remain in one piece. They will
hold up to three human sized people each. :

The boats are one skull wonders, the denizens are once again responsible for their
own rating.

Trap #19: “More Ups And Downs!”

The delvers who don’t make it to the pier will have much more fun. As the boat
empties of it’s occupants and settles down into the glassy depths, the would-be robbers will
find themselves clinging like rats to one or more of the stalagmites, unless they choose to
“go down with their ship”. (Delvers’1I do the darnedest things under pressure.) If this is the
case sic some of the water dwellers on them.

Those who are clinging to the stalagmites will feel more than hear the “click” as the
traps here are released. Stalagmites A, B, and D begin to slowly sink into the water. This
provides an entertaining spectacle as the delvers frantically climb up the ever thinning stone.
More and more delvers, less and less room at the top, reminds me of my old corporate structure.
Add at this point a few ghostly white dorsal fins circling and you have true art!

Eventually the stalagmite will submerge and the party will have to “sink or swim”,
chomp, chomp!

Meanwhile, stalagmites C and E begin to rise. At first this will seem like a blessing.
Some of the delvers trapped on A, B, or D may even try to swim over and join them. Itis after
allonly 10 or 12 feet...chomp,chomp! Eventually the sharp pointof the stalagmites willreach
the ceiling. At this point the ceiling is 45 feet above the water level. The stalagmite’s point
will drive itself into the ceiling breaking into the small chambers cleverly placed overhead.

Stalagmites C and E penetrate rooms filled with particularly slippery, and smelly fish
oil. The relatively smooth surface of the stalagmites will soon be covered with the extremely
slippery substance. On any given turn there is a 30% chance (L3) that the delvers clinging
tothe rocks will loose their grip. (Please note the ceiling here consists of crumbling limestone
formations. Attempts to drive pitons into it will result in collapsing parts of the fragile structure
down around the delvers ears, and probably knocking out the bottom of the room overhead.)

The fish oil will attract predators from miles around in the underground river
network. Just what the delvers will need at this point, more company.

Once again Evinrood seems to be just toying with the hapless tomb robbers, amusing
but only worth one skull.

Trap #20: “Row Row Row Your Boat, Life Is But A Scream!”

The current will carry anyone who has found the elfish boats toward a point in the
center of the far wall of the grotto. At this point there is a curtain of old chains hanging down
from a fixture in the ceiling. The chains are set closely enough together that the delvers cannot
see what lies beyond. The chains also come within inches of the water’ s surface so they cannot
be looked under. They are heavy enough that they hang straight down, but loose enough that
the prow of a canoe, or boat will force them apart. Unless otherwise noted chain curtains like
this separate every part of this river system in the Tomb from every other part.

Once the delvers have parted the curtain they will find themselves ona swifter, much
narrower and shallower portion of the river. At this point there will be no real necessity for
the party to paddle unless they are really into speed. The can use paddles to steer if they like,

 

DUNGEON
== OF

DOOM

Page 27

 
