DUNGEON

— or ——

DOOM

Page 28

but there doesn’t appear to be any part of the waterway different than any other part.

The trap here lies just below the surface, and is a wonder of dwarven technology in
it’s simplest form. Setin the river bottom pointing back into the currentare three lines of razor
sharp spears. They are set inches below the surface and are thin enough that they do notruffle
the water’s surface. They are elevated in response to any lateral pressure on the curtain at the
entrance. Push aside the curtain and you will release a counterweight that lifts the spears off
the bottom and upward at just the right attitude to spoil the delvers day! The spears are made
of acorrosion proof alloy perfected by the dwarves. They are as sharp today as they were the
day they were set in place. This is one of those intrinsic treasures that the party is likely to
overlook in the ensuing carnage. Metal of this type that holds its edge against any test, and
resists corrosion under water for centuries would be worth over 1,000 g.p. per blade to any
weaponsmith. They would also serve any delver who survives well as a weapon.

Just the thing to build overconfidence.

The object of the spears is not, as some would think to impale tomb robbers through
the bottom of their flimsy boats. Oh no! Evinrood has been far more subtle than that. The
spears are in place to slice open any watercraft that finds it’s way down this merrie waterway.
(Oh I suppose if the party chose to swim down the river, battling the underwater denizens every
turn of the way, that these spears would hit them about chest high. But no one would be fool
enough to try to swim the length of the river...well we are talking dungeon delvers after all.)

Keep in mind the current is very swift here. Ruination is almost.a certainty. After
the first boat has been impaled there will be little that its crew can do to avoid being carried
along in their rapidly-sinking craft. Any boat behind it may take a lesson from what happens
tothe first, but being delvers the occupants of the first boat will more than likely be inarticulate
in their confused babble. If some kind of halt can be accomplished the spears can be pulled
out of the sockets they are set in with little effort. The spears are 4D6+3 dwarvish steel Pila.
Any party that cannot stop but manages to avoid the spears will be swept on into another
curtain at the end of the short tunnel, and into the next trap.

Therisk factor against life for those in the boats is low; clearly this is torob the delvers
of their transportation. Against boat people a one skull rating. For the swimmers the rating \
goes up to three, a nasty surprise for the combat-weary.

Trap #21: “Poke, Grapple, Wrestle, And Chomp: Personal Injuries A Specialty!”

The action at this point speeds up greatly. If by some miracle the party is still in the
boat it will meet the same fate, but lets deal with the “floaters” first. When the would-be tomb
robbers reach the curtain they will become aware that just beyond the chain the water plunges
off a cliff. This is one of the sources of the roaring water noise that was heard in the grotto
room. Swept into the chains, a swimmers instinct alone will impel him or her to grab onto
them.

“Floaters” or boaters, if they do not grab onto the chains, will fall 100 feet to their
great discomfort in the pool that awaits below. There is a 30% chance (L3) of being drowned.
This will result from the depth of the plunge, or from being stunned by the impact. Armored
characters will have to boost that to 50% (L5) for the obvious reason. If no one grabs the chains
in the crew of a boat, or none of the “floaters” have grabbed the chains, then the boat will
survive the fall intact: everyone will be dumped out but the boat will be fine.

Enough of this gloomy speculation, they are bound to grab the chains in desperation.
Now the real fun begins. Instead of finding a semisafe place to pause and reflect on their
current predicament, the delvers will find that the chains are anything but secure. There will
be an initial pause, then the chain will begin to play out down the face of the falls. The lip
of the falls is undercut so that even if the delvers can manage to swing through the torrent they
will encounter nothing but more water on the back swing. The chains will play out about 20
feet, just enough to allow the torrent to pound the would-be tomb robber senseless, but still
80 feet above the pool below, where the chain will stop unreeling.

Atthis point the options seem to be to hang here and be pounded by the water, attempt
to climb back up in the face of the torrent on a slippery chain, or trust to luck and drop into
the pool. If the boat went over first, or other swimmers have made the plunge first the last
