alternative might not look impossible. Keep in
mind that the only light in this cavern is froma few
(very few) patches of bioluminescent lichens. This
will serve to outline objects but not to illuminate
things. Torches will be needed to make enlight-
ened decisions.

Alas, what fools these delvers be. When
the chain played out it also served to raise a bed of
spikes up under the falls. Not too far up, only to fea aens
within a foot of the surface of the pool. Zip-splat! : . ‘ Raenah 5
Delver Kabobs with fresh sea food - my favorite. f "

An interesting variation would be to have the chain
break off once the spears are locked in place.

At this point I must inject a brief editorial
statement. You might think that tomb operation in
thisenlightened time would berelatively free of the
craven interference by lobby groups, special labor
representatives and such like vermin. Notso! This
tomb being a masterpiece of the trap masters art
needs very few “live” monsters. Asa result of this
my offices were beset by picketers from The
Brotherhood of Very Large Vermin Local 666.
(You haven’t lived until you have seen a cadre of
Dragons, Land Sharks, Tyranosauri, and Giant
Gastropods holding Unfair to Labor Signs. It was

 

enough to put ME off my lunch.) So without further
ado the Lurker Past the Threshold part of this Trap.
(What the hey, the room was big enough and just

going to waste),
The pool is 70 feet across and 100 feet wide, and deep enough that even with a

determined effort the bottom cannot be found. In the inky depths can be found a life form that
will find the thrashing and struggling of the delvers very interesting in a gustatory way. A giant
albino cave squid lurks at the bottom of the pool. As it thrives on the occasional passing shark,
or barricuda, a few foundering delvers will prove just the thing to draw an exploratory tentacle
up from the icy depths.

If the party can get back in their boat fast and paddle, or if the boat has been impaled,
and they elect to swim for the exit they will only have to deal with a few probing tentacles. If
they lollygag about noticing for the moment the dearth of predatory cave critters, they will be
confronted by the spelunkers answer to Leviathan! (The tentacles alone would be marginally
tough, but the entire 8 tentacles and 2 elongated grappling arms will be inmy humble estimation
a lethal combination without the application of very unusual means.

In this case quick recovery from the fall and quicker departure is the most likely key
to having the tomb robbers prolong our fun.

The whole room rates four skulls, with the <censored> monster. The spears at the
bottom of the fall pulled up by the frantic delvers is a realy nice touch.

Trap #22: “Rock and Roll River” by Evinrood and the Delvers!

In the wall opposite the waterfall is another entrance covered by tightly spaced chains
that barely touch the water. If the party has even a shred of sense they will make for this exit
at great speed. (I’ve had great fun betting on which delver will make the exit first, kinda like
cockroach races.)

Once through the chains the tomb robbers may want to tum back. Before them is a
narrow tunnel 7 to 10 feet wide, and about twice that in height (half of this filled with very rapidly
moving water.) Adding to the trepidation is the fact that the tunnel bends out of sight to the right.
(Lights, torches would be nice here!) The speed of the current will preclude any deep thought
on the part of the delvers. There are stalactites depending from the ceiling which have a mere

 

DUNGEON
=a

DOOM

Page 29

 
