 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Sal &

Page 30

10% chance (L1) of beaning someone upright in the boat. Their presence will nicely obscure
the real traps in this section.

Evinrood being in this for the long haul, needed a way to keep the narrower parts of
his waterway clear of debris, most of which would be biological, so as with the shredding
spears earlier he devised aclever slicer here. The Rolling Rocks of Doom are perhaps the most
diabolical traps so far rendered. As the party is swept along, both boaters and “floaters”, they
will encounter water-smoothed rocks that lurk just below the surface. Aside from some
bumps and bruises they will not seriously disturb the “floaters”, and the boaters will just scrape
over them with little ill effect due to the speed of the current. No problem, thinks the delvers.
“Ha!”, says you. The next smooth rock they come to is anything but.

The upstream side is a smooth rock surface counterweighted so that the smooth side
faces upriver. Rushing water will not upset this balance. The impact of a heavy object, like
alarge dead fish, or a boat load of foolish tomb robbers will cause the balance to tip. Mounted
on dwarvish steel axles, the rock portion drops down, out from under the delvers, presenting
a broad flat surface to the current of the stream. This will force the other end of the device
to swing around, up and over, presenting the party with a rack of parallel scythe-like blades.
These blades will flash around and neatly flense your victims into convenient longitudinal
slices. The force of the river’s motion on the now, ahem, clogged blades will bring the smooth
rock face back around and help reset the flenser.

I suppose if a high enough level character with incredible armour on could see the
trap coming, he could roll into a ball, and the scythe blades might just hook him around and
under, freeing him on the other side. But this would stretch the bounds of credulity. There
is only a 50% chance (LS) that even having heavy armour would help.

Three skulls are about the best I can go on this one good effort for a janitorial tool.

Trap #23: “It Is Always Darkest Before Things Go Right Down The Drain!”

The best thing about the last trap is that in the space of 50 to 100 feet you can have
2to 5 of them. By the time what’s left of the party has drifted out of the tunnel they will need
arest. And the always generous Evinrood is glad to oblige. The room the party has drifted
into is 50 feet in all directions, up, down and side to side, Furthermore it has an inhibitory
spell on it that works as follows. Any of the lower life forms that drift into the chamber, like
barricudas, albino sharks, wandering lawyers and such will not be able to sense the presence
of food. If the party can manage to obtain light they will be able to see that the water is quite
deep, and crystal clear. The frightful denizens are clearly seen all about the delving party,
moving on into the next part of the river. (Descriptions in detail of what they have been
struggling against would be an excellent use of terror at this point! Gives the party something
to look forward to.)

Also to be seen is a great chain that is in the center of the room. It is anchored to the
ceiling, and descends into the depths of the pool, where it is also anchored to a round dwarf
carved and positioned stone slab. Near the chain at the top can be seen a glittering that is near
and dear to the heart of any dungeon delver and tomb trespasser: crystaline formations. These
are so clearly gem quality itcan be seen from the river surface 50 feet away. Itisasif the grotto
had been eaten away from below by the river until it came to this layer of uncut gems.

Up to this point the only things of value salvageable by the party have been fine
dwarvish stainless cutlery (1,000 - 1,750 g.p. value each. Hey didn’t! tell you Evinrood had
a government sized budget on this place.) The delvers have been battered, beaten, sliced,
spiked and nibbled; if they don’t go for this bait check them for signs of brain damage.

The chain is easy to climb for there is no slack to it. The delvers should all be able
to fit on the chain as it is 50 feet in length from the water to the ceiling. When the first delver
reaches the top of the chain he will see aruby the size of his head nestled amongst similar stones
that are packed together in a bed of shale. Or so it will seem. When the party starts to loosen
the stones around the ruby, or tries to take the ruby itself they will seal their own fate.

The Ruby is attached to the mechanism that holds the chain in place in the ceiling.
The chain in turn holds the plug in the bottom of the room in place. Things start happening
fast at this point. Number one, the chain shoots straight into the water below like an arrow.
The partial vacuum imparted in times long past to the large chamber under this one will suck
