DUNGEON
———0F

the block to which the chain is fas- DOOM

tened into the chamber below like an
egg into a bottle. (You know, milk
bottle, lighted match, egg on the
opening—thoop—into the bottle?
Arg! What’s happened to young
trapsters these days? Don’t any of
you watch “Mr, Science”’?) F 3

Any delvers who do not let a : 2. CHAIN & GEMS
go should have a 60% chance (L4) of yg ese
surviving being sucked through ahole
under water at high speed. If any
members of the party survive there is
a30% chance they will be stunned by
the 100 foot fall to the chamber bot-
tom. This will cause them to drown
unless rescued from the following
events, The party will then be hit by
the torrent of water from above with
the power of a highspeed fire hose!
(There is an 80% chance (L2) to
avoid being directly below the open-
ing and battered by the stream!)

Tombrobbers lucky enough
to have been in the water still, or to
have let go in time are now treated to
a merry-go-round ride the likes of 3. VACUUM
which they have never experienced. SUCKS IN
Like a giant tub emptied by an extra PLUG &
large drain the circular chamber has : Gash
become a vortex! The suction, com- >
bined with the speed of the current
has started a whirlpool effect that will
begin to fill the vast chamber under
the pool. The delvers will be power-
less to resist.

Those that can fly out of the water will be knocked out of the air by falling rocks from
the ceiling above. The mechanism holding the top of the chain in place also serves to start
a“cave in” of the gem bearing slate layer. This was designed to peal off just the 1 foot thick
layer that was “plastered” onto the roof, especially with flying wizards in mind.
Ifa member of the group survives being pulled into the lower chamber keep in mind
that it will fill up in fairly short order having as it’s source of supply the entire river system,
and that this will leave the party under 50 feet of water once the incoming pressure equalizes.
To add insult to injury the gems themselves, having been washed out of the falling rock will
be sucked down into the bottom of the lower chamber. Oh yes, there is more: the “no lunch”
spellis only good in the upperchamber. All the denizens that are swept into the lower chamber
to keep the delvers company will be in full fighting trim. Salvaging the jewels should pose
adaunting prospect. 100 feet from the surface of the pool, through a fairly narrow opening,
past the hungry river dwellers, without any light, should keep them out, but the prospect of
10,000 g.p. (uncut, as is) will prove a powerful temptation.
Oh one last thing, being pulled through the “drain hole” will be none too good for
the structure of the party’s boat, or boats! Let's face it, those old wooden boats will be
irrecoverable. So don't let any wise-guy members of the party tell you otherwise.
Allright! If someone in the group has the right magical ability they MIGHT be able &)
Page 31

 

  

 

to put the boats back togather again with the right spell. Sheesh!
This trap rates four skulls: with so many ways to go this one is almost a sure thing.
