 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

] & &)

Page 32

 

Trap #24: “Chutes and Graters”

Ashardas it may be to believe there are those who will finda way pastthe Drain Trap,
but that’s O. K: because good old Evinrood believes in overkill. (That’s one of the things I
like about the old fossil.)

Across from the passage that led the party into the last trap there is a low-roofed tunnel
that exits the drain room. Once the large room under the upper chamber has filled the current
will carry the delvers on into this tunnel.

The delvers will quickly discover that the walls are worn very smooth, and that the
tunnel is fairly shallow. One of the ways a delver may discover the smoothness is by trying
to stand up. Given the smooth rock and the swift current, standing up is out of the question.
(No, Gargantua the Mighty, 1Sth. level warrior, strength has nothing to do with it.) The walls

and ceiling are worn smooth as well.
The tunnel starts out as a 12

foot round tube. As it goes on the
hapless crew will notice that it is
sloped downward in an ever-increas-
ing angle. The pace picks up as the
volume of water is accelerated by
gravity. Further along the tube be-
gins to narrow, first to 10 feet round,
8 feet, finally to 6 feet. The water
level rises almost to the top of the
tube, and is accelerated still more.
(Nope, Gargantua, sorry, strength
fails again. Now even though the
walls are close enough to press against
they are still slick, and the water will
back up against you increasing the
weight with every passing second!)

Thisisall well and good you
say but what's the punch line? The
chute, like all fun things must come
toanend. By now the party’s torches
should be out, or at best casting a
flickering light only inches from the
roof of the tunnel. The party will be
carried along at a pace that will be
hard to determine, but everyone in-
volved will know it is fast. All this sets the stage for the end of the tunnel.

Remember the dwarvish metal spears, and scythe blades? Remember Evinrood’s
fastidious preoccupation with keeping organic matter from backing up in the system?
Remember that the end of most tunnels had a screen on them as a recurring design feature?
At the end of the tunnel, with the party flying along at very good speed and little chance to
stop, they will find a grating. Floor to ceiling spaced less than 8 inches apart are as nice a
set of corrosion resistant dwarvish metal blades as you could imagine. As razor sharp as you
could hope for! This should give any party encountering it cause to review their itinerary.

(Now you may think the party will end righthere. Hasn’tthe fact that they have gotten
this far proven anything to you? Delvers are the most devious and conniving scum on the
planet, and there are a few ways to escape even this trap. (If Gargantua has a magic sword
that will destroy all other blades it encounters, for example.) So make it hard for the party
to see this one coming, and force some high level luck usage.)

Without armor the gratings are 100% lethal. With armor there is still a 30% chance
(L3) of death or dismemberment keeping in mind that other delvers will stack up on the stopped
one increasing the force!

This babe is three skulls if the party is unarmored dropping to two skulls if the party
is armored. Either way, it’s a really sharp little trap.

renee
