 

Trap #25: “How Long Can You Tread Water?”

What is left of the tomb robbing party will be ejected out over a vast underground
lake. They will be carried by the pressure of the entire river far out from the wall, where they
will plummet to the surface of the lake below. 150 feet below! Luck will play a major part
in surviving a fall from this height. There is a 30% chance (L3) that death will result from
the fall. Drowning from the depth of the plunge is what will likely turn up on the coroner’s
report. (The last primarily applies to heavily armoured characters.)

At the point below the area in which most of the debris from the falls hits the lake
there will be a collection of bones, most sliced into convenient 8 inch bits. It would be here
that an appearance of the legendary Glass Catfish would be very convenient. The party
winded, bereft of boat, thrashing about in the water, perfect!

The legendary Glass Catfish will be found lurking at the bottoms of this grotto, This
baby is a giant breed of catfish whose flesh is transparent. The Glass Cat just lies waiting for
lunch to come to it. Lying on the bottom he looks like an old skeleton picked clean and left
by time, unless he has just eaten. Digestion can be a gross process especially if it is someone
you know! He can grow up to 40 feet in length depending upon his food supply. (Almost
always found one at a time this creature is like fighting a subterranian killer whale: VERY
tough.)

If you find the fish and the party are reluctant to mix it up there is always a way to
bait the delvers into diving down and stirring up the fish. Liberally sprinkle the bottom with
about 15,000 g.p. worth of gold and gems mixed in with the jumbled bones and I don’t think
you will have any problems.

Keeping in mind that the “Fish” should be at least as tough as a 15 L Warrior
(remember Gargantua) the trap only rates two skulls. With just the fish and the fall this trap
is more scenic than deadly.

   

NA Ag I |
HMA ery

my

  

Trap #26: “What’s The Matter? Cat Got Your Tongue?!

By now the party will have noticed that they can see their way around this vast
chamber fairly well. This is because of the lambent light cast by a huge statue of a cat sitting
on an island in the lake.

This is clearly no ordinary cat and no ordinary statue. Itis over 15 feet tall, and made
of a transparent emerald-like substance. The light is odd in that it is not really bright, but very
difficult to look at for long periods of time. The figure is obviously a cat but like no cat the
delvers have ever seen. It is long bodied and obviously female, but it stands erect on it’s hind
legs. It is also holding in one “hand” a staff.

The statue’s eyes are the only things not carved from the same transparent green
stone. They are difficult to see clearly, but they seem to be a rich topaz color, embedded in

DUNGEON
== 0F:

DOOM

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  

Page 33
