DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

 

Page 34

the statue.

The statue is facing a low pedestal upon which sets a stone coffin, covered with
carvings. They depicta pair of figures, one a short male human and one a tall catlike creature.
They appear to be locked in some kind of struggle.

If the party makes it to the island they will find it to be an oval roughly 50 feet long,
and 40 feet wide. It rises barely a foot above the lake’s surface.

Ifany of the party’s magic users have survived this far they will detect no magic from
the coffin or the statue, but there is a great deal of nonactive magic on the staff, in the statues
hand. This staff is made of the same substance as the statue, with the exception that the staff
is veined throughout with a very fine latticework of gold wire.

The coffin will yield the same scenes of combat seen from the water, but in more
detail. Clearly they depict a wizards duel between the catlike creature and Evinrood. It is
likely that this island is much associated with that conflict.

The coffin opens from the top. The lid can be removed with ease by any member
of the party. The contents will at first seem to be a slab of the same translucent substance that
makes up the cat statue. Lying under the emerald slab can be seen, vaguely, items of exotic
jewelry, all cast in gold. This “slab” of emerald completely fills the bottom of the coffin,
glittering. If any member of the party touches it, even with a sword or intermediary device,
like a stick or staff, an immediate reaction will occur.

The “awful green stuff” is the horribly diabolical way Evinrood used to defeat the
cat-deamon. It is an algae which he projected from a compartment in his staff. This enabled
him to both defend himself from its attack and counterattack with devastating effect at the
same time. The abilities of this algae are threefold: first it will consume any carbon containing
substance, second it grows extremely rapidly (so fast that it can seem to leap toward it’s
victims) and third it is very difficult to kill. The algae will lie dormant in the absence of “food”
but once “food” presents itself the growth is explosive! This is where the delvers come in.

The “blob” will explode out of the coffin, and engulf the first character who comes
incontact with it. (Ifa trapmaster is areal namby-pamby he could permit the character to drop
the object up which the growth has occurred. Keep in mind this stuff is fast. There is only
40% chance (L6) of success.) After the character has been “consumed” the growth will be
explosive. The island will be covered with a thin layer of algae in a matter of seconds.
The delvers will be left with two options; dive back into the lake and all that that entails—
chomp—chomp—, or climb the cat statue and hope it is not edible, or attractive to the “blob”.

The algae will stop at the water’s edge. This is not an hospitable environment for
this type of algae, as it is fresh water. The algae needs salt for its growth. If the party is in
a position to watch they will see little fish come up and nibble the fringes of the algae as it
comes into contact with the water. They in turn are instantly dragged onto the island and turned
into little blobs of algal mass. Itcannot grow in the water but, it loses none of its potency, right
up to the edge!

The party that has climbed up on the cat statue will notice that the eyes mentioned
earlier are in fact giant gem stones. They will also note that the statue is laced throughout with
microfine lines. The light comes from a hole beneath the base of the statue that opens into
a volcanic pit. The glowing lava is somehow magnified by the construction features of this
incredibly valuable statue. If the party attempts toremove the “eyes” they will causé the statue
toshatter into millions of shards. (Ifthey are hanging onto itthey will be dumped to the ground,
or the next closest thing if they work over the statue after opening the coffin.) The “eyes” will
remain intact and have a value of 10,000 g.p. each!

If the party has attacked the statue before the coffin nothing else will happen. If the
“blob” is loosed first, after the statue crumbles and the party has fallen into the “blob” and been
consumed, the lava which has been held in check beneath the statue is released. This.is as a
result of the releasing of a pressure plate in the bottom of the coffin. Once the “blob” has gone
out hunting, the pressure will be released, and the quartz panel will be withdrawn, if the statue
is destroyed. The lava will clean off the island of the last vestiges of the “blob”. The party
will only see this if they are in the water.

The only loose end in this whole setup is the staff the statue was holding. It is the
staff of the catlike daemon that battled Evinrood. It will not be consumed by the “blob”, and
it will not be melted or burned by the lava. It still radiates powerful magic. If any member
