of the party touches this staff his or her brain will short out. He or she will become in effect
afirst level wizard with one heck of a magic staff. (The staff will act as a magical amplifier
making it possible for the character who posseses it to cast spells at any level once it learns
them. This will be without the usual costs.) The character will also be transformed into a
15 foot tall catlike creature, with attributes and personality corresponding there too. The
character will not remember anything of it’s own past life and the brain patterns of the cat-
wizard will not be able to impress themselves on the ordinary delver brain. (Brains? Imagine
that; delvers have brains! Who'd have thought such a thing?) IMPORTANT SURVIVAL
TIP: Don’t play with the toys of high level wizards.

There is a way out of this lake other than trying to crawl all the way back up the river.
If the party, or what is left of it, looks around the wall to the right of the waterfall, they will
find the ranks of dripping stalactites interrupted by,a column of green algae. This slimy pillar
stretches up into the dim light until it reaches the roof of the cavern. If the gang of cavern
crawlers inspects this more closely, they will find it to be the only practical exit from this
chamber. Under the layers of algeal growth, the tomb trashing party will find a rust coated
ladder, almost corroded through in places. Ascending this slimy tower will call for a fair
amount of dexterity and daring, coated as it is with muck. There is a 30% chance (L3) of any
given member in any given turn slipping, or of one of the cross ties giving way.

At the top will be found a stone hatch. Someone of above average strength must be
at the top of the ladder to open the hatch. (If not, require saving rolls as they try to change
places). There is a 20% chance (L2) that a rung of the ladder will break as he tries to lift the
hatch. (The reason it is so heavy is that there is a chest of teasure sitting on top of it.) If they
make it through, the party will find themselves coming up into Trap #39 from below.

The Blobisa four skull horror; speed and animal reflexes are essential. Not opening
the Coffin is the best defense. The gold in the coffin is all that remains of the cat creature.
The cat wizard infected by the blob was trapped in the coffin by Evinrood. The lava will clear
off the island and melt the coffin.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Be
Ee

DUNGEON
—— 0F:

DOOM

Page 35

 
