DUNGEON

—— or ——

DOOM

  
 
   
 
 
  

Page 36

THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED

For the party of tomb trespassers to have even found this path indicates that they think
deviously. This is good, it means they may last a few traps longer and prolong the fun. This
path through the devious treachery of Evinrood’s traps has as its theme missdirection. In most
cases what you see is NOT what you get, or what you get is very definitely not what you
expected, which leads us to...

Trap #27: I’m Sure You’ll Get The Point!

The doors behind the stucco are, once cleared, revealed to be the same as the doors
on the right, the “Ye Olde Digit Dicer” lock type. They consist of two large 10 foot by 10
foot panels, 10 feet tall. The locking mechanism will seem familiar, however these have a
twist. The party will discover to its chagrin that the door cannot be opened by a simple magic
spell. In fact they cannot be opened by a complex magic spell either. They are two layers
deep. The first was the decorative fresco coat that had to be chipped off before the party could
even get at them. The second coat is a false stone veneer which is set in place over the real
doors themselves. This stone veneer can be disolved by magic, and the real doors will be
revealed. But we should deal with those who don’t have high level wizards hanging on their
coat tails.

If the delvers treat this door as if it were just the ordinary “stick something in in the
right pattern” three-hole lock they are in for a surprise. By now they will have learned, if they
have encountered this type of lock before, that using your own digits to trip the lock is
detrimental to ones continued well being. Some form of device is likely to be employed in
the holes in lieu of a digit. This will be fine as the trap works in a new and startling way.

Once the appropriate digit sized device is inserted in the door the trap is triggered.
Out ofall three finger holes will shoot 2 and 1/2 foot long steel darts. These darts are propelled
by powerful springs, and as a result they will splinter any wooden or fleshy objects used. If
the digit used is armored the point on the dart is such that it will penetrate any but the finest
or magically protected armor.

As youcansee this variation will cause some surprise to delvers who expectone thing
and are served up yet another.

Once the delvers figure that thé stone facade is not the real door either the party’s
mage will blast away the rock or the beefier warrior types will manually remove the stone.
Revealed will be the faces of two massive bronze doors of exactly the same dimensions. They
are works of the bronze casters art.

They depict the climactic scene of Evinrood’s battle with the deamon lord. There
are vile faced terrors swarming all about a central figure on the right who is marshaling them
to the attack. On the left is the stumpy figure of Evinrood surrounded by ranks of earth, air,
fire, and especially water elementals. Their vaguely humanoid faces are intent on the fight.
All the monstrous faces are turned to face the observer, not the respective foe, only the wizard’s
faces are turned toward each other. On the lefthand door there are three empty holes just like
there were on the stone facia. (There may be a few of the delvers who do not realize that these
are the holes out of which the darts fired. Don’t clue them in, let them timidly probe them
for awhile. It will serve to heighten their apprehension.)

The bronze is hardened to a surprising degree so the doors are not subject to any but
the most powerful physical attack. The doors radiate the presence of a magical spell. As there
isno other observable way to open the doors it is clear that they are magically locked and will
require a mage to open them.

The spell required to unlock the doors is nota difficultone. Almost any intermediate
level spell of opening will suffice to set off the trap, and open the doors.

The baleful malice-filled eyes, sunk like dark holes in the monstrous deamonic and
elementai faces were just that, holes. From the eyes of every monster face shoot the 2 and 1/
2 foot darts the party will have encountered from the three hole lock attempt in the stone facade.
There are dozens of the darts and they cover the entire face of both doors. If the party is before
the doors when the spell is cast there is a40% chance (L4) of any one of them catching a dart.

 

|
