 

If the character misses, the number by which he misses will determine the number of darts he
receives. They will each do 1D6+3 in damage, and will be stopped only by magical armor,
dwarven steel armor, or regular armor of extreme thickness.

Incidentally, if there are any of the tomb traipsers left at this point, the doors open
by themselves and swing inward. They are three feet thick (so that the darts can be loaded
into the works.) and counterweighted to swing freely. (Lest the party thinks of purloining the
doors, [Don’tlaugh it’s happened before.] they are hollow, and their actual value (2,000 g.p.)
is in the art work and in the trap mechanism within.)

The party will be free to continue on down the corridor thus revealed.

The door is a two skull trap, clever but the darts are a little wimpy to be rated three,

Trap #28: The Danger Here Will Be Crystal Clear.

The would-be tomb robbers will look down a broad corridor that is 20 feet wide, and
50 feet long. The ceiling is 15 feet high. They will see that after an interval wide enough
to permit the bronze entry doors to swing wide the hall is occupied. In a rank along the walls
oneither side, for 30 feet, are 12-foot tall statues of warriors. These warriors are truely unique.
‘They are tall, oddly thin warriors with unnaturally elongated limbs and long, hollow cheeked
faces, They are sculpted entirely of crystal. These warriors are a symphony of sharp points
and acute angles. Armed with pole weapons edged up their entire length, these objects would
be dangerous to a character’ s continued health if they were even brushed against, let alone if
they were to attack.

Thecrystal warriors are
stationary and transparent. The
light from the party’s torches
will be refracted into a million
rainbow glints and highlights,
by the thousands of crystaline
edges. They are not as great a
threat to armored warriors as
they would be to lightly armored
wizards and rogues who must
travel light.

An alert leader will
take one look at this arrange-
ment of “glassware” and do his
level best to smash the warriors
where they stand. The statues
are easily broken up. A sharp
blow will do the job with ease.
The statues will collapse into
heaps of dagger-like shards, each
shard glass-sharp onall its edges.
Beyond reducing these statues
to shards there is little else that
can be done as further attacking
the piles of shards will only
resultin smaller, sharper shards.
Once they are destroyed there
can be seen a mechanism like a
stone piston that was fastened to
the back of each warrior.

If the party is not astute enough to smash the statues, and instead goes on through the
room, they will be entertained and diverted by a fairly simple mechanism. As the room radiates
no magic they will be on their guard for mechanical traps. The entire floor surface is the
activator mechanism. It is a long tilt plate rocker switch constructed to balance on a slight
bump in the middle so that when the party enters the room it tilts down to set, and when they

DUNGEON
—— OF.

DOOM

 

   
 
  
 

Page 37
