 

DUNGEON

OS

DOOM

Be
Be

Page 38

pass the halfway point the party’s weight brings it down on the activator.

The net result is that the crystal warriors are thrust forward on hydraulically driven
pistons to smash into each other, and coincidentally any hapless delvers who are in between,
This will have a two-fold potential for injury. First from the force of the pistons, which is
considerable, and secondarily from the multitude of sharp and penetrating surfaces on the
statues themselves. The chances of a party member actually being hit directly by one of the
pistons is only 20%, (L2). The chances of a delver whois notheavily armored sufferinga slash
from anear miss is 30% (L3). Asaresult of the overall rough treatment the statues will shatter
into shards as described above. (This may seem obvious, but if the statues are smashed in
advance the location of the pistons will be obvious.)

Once the statues have been overcome the party may feel free to proceed to the large
double doors at the hall’s end. Wrong.

This trap may seem like a rather ornate but clumsy effort, rating a mere two skulls,
but as with many of Evinrood’s best traps this is just the set up.

Trap #28a: Just What Every Delver Needs, A Little Polish.

The doors at the end of the hall are the standard double doors, featureless, except for
the three-hole lock mechanism. They are 10 feettalland 10 feet wide. With the crushed crystal
warriors at their back the party will likely feel that the doors are their only problem.

The doors are unlocked by the usual method, either a low level magical spell, or by
“probing” the holes for the right one. When the locking mechanism is tripped is when the fun
begins again.

‘The first noticeable reaction to the unlocking of the doors is that the floor of the room
the party is in splits down the middle, dumping the party and the crushed crystal warriors into
achamber 30 feet below the main hall. This chamber has a rounded bottom and is 50 feet long
by 20 feet in diameter. Once the tomb traipsers land in the chamber the weight of their fall
causes doors over their heads to close and lock in place. This will effectively create a 50 foot
long cylinderical can inside which are the party, and several hundred pounds of crushed
crystal.

A quick thinking wizard may fly himself out of this trap by not allowing himself to
fall but most other delvers should be trapped by this. If you are feeling sporting you can give
them a 40% chance (L6) to evade the trap if the delver can come up with a way to stay up,
and acts on it.

Now comes the part that makes this really special. Once the lid has trapped the
delvers a door is opened near the end of the giant can. This door is at the end of a tunnel that
leads back to the underground river. The purpose of this water shaft is to turn a large water
wheel at the greatest possible velocity. The water wheel is joined to the end of the trap can
by aseries of geared wheels (Evinrood’s design, dwarvish manufacture.) The trapped delvers
are in no position to appreciate this marvel of manufactured genius, but they are uniquely
placed to enjoy its effects.

As the water brings the wheel up to speed the gears will turn the entire cylinder
mechanism atan increasing rate. The cylinder’s far end is anchored by a large axle that allows
this turning to proceed smoothly. The party inside the can will be subjected to the exact same
treatment that is used to polish gem stones smooth. The crushed crystal, and the buffeting
turning as the speed picks up will be sufficient to take the edge off even the most uncouth,
loutish warrior. (If you want comic relief you can have the speed increase slowly enough that
fora short period of time delvers who are sufficiently agile can run in the direction of the spin.
Of course the river is tireless, the same can seldom be said for the average dungeon delver.

Once the tomb robbing party has gotten out of the Tumbler Trap (and believe me a
party eventually will, in some devious and destructive manner.) They will find that the 20 foot
wide doors have been released. (One or the other of the opening trap components also releases
the doors, I forget which, perhaps the one that turns on the water?) The party will be confronted
bya“T” intersection. To the right and leftare 10-foot wide doors. (There is also a secret panel
but for reasons that will become obvious we are saving this for last. The party is being offered
two perfectly obvious alternatives, why would they look for a third?)
