 

The polisher is a four skull trap for artistic value as well as torturous intent. The one
- two, phased set up wasn’t bad either.

If the party elects to go to the right proceed to the next trap. If the party elects to go
to the left then go to Trap #44 and run things backward to this point!

If by some tragic mischance the party detects the secret door, then go to Done Too
Soon. (With any luck they'll get there none too soon.)

Trap #29: Heated Harassment Harries Hapless Hunters.

The stair to the right leads upward 30 feet and is 10 feet wide. The stairs themselves
are metal and inclined at a steep angle. At the far end of the stairs is a nonstandard door, the
details of which are hard to make out at this distance. As the party climbs the stair they will,
within 10 feet of the bottom, encounter some cobwebs. They are slightly sticky and break
easily to the passage of the torch or the brush of ahand. They cover the entire opening of the
stair way, butsothinly that they are only just visible in the torch (or whatever) light. Concealed
amongst the cobwebs is an ultra fine trip wire. The wire is strong enough for the delver who
breaks it to have an 80% chance (L2) of detecting that something is amiss.

Inacomplex of chambers above the stairs there is a network of steam vents. Their
source is geyserlike geothermal energy. When the wire is broken, the steam flows down
conduits in the walls and into a network of metal pipes under the stairs. The bottom of this
pipeline is perforated so that the steam will flow out fast enough so to permit a steady flow
of more fresh, hot steam. All this drains down into a vast chamber under the stairs. The stairs
willin shortorder take on the heat of the live steam, and reach a temperature of several hundred
degrees. Barefooted characters will be deeply distressed; those with armored foot gear will
also be negatively affected as their “protection” heats up.

The best part of the trap is that the door, when reached, has no handle, and seemingly
no opening mechanism at all. The plaster that covers it is laid over iron so attempts to dig
through or chop down the door will be fruitless, and time consuming, as the temperature of
the stairwell increases. If a character spends more than three turns engaged in strenuous
activity at the top of the stairs there is a very real chance of heat stroke! (The chance should
start low, say 20% (L2), for turn 3 at the top, this should escalate to a 30% chance (L3) for
the fourth turn at the top, and so on.)

The punch line of the joke is that the door will open by itself in 15 turns, when the
supply of steam runs out and the residual condenses. At this time the door simply drops into
aslot in the floor, assuming the party has not so deformed it that it will no longer fit.

I like a hot foot as much as the next guy and this one is pretty well done, but with the
exception of the heat stroke potential, and some potential foot burns, this trap only rated one
skull. This trap gives the party a chance to take a "breather" for a change.

Trap #30: “Put That Down, You Don’t Know Where It’s Been.”

When the door is opened it will reveal a room 30 feet by 30 feet with a 15 foot high
ceiling. The dooris centered in one wall, and all the other walls are featureless, save for frescos
on the stucco depicting a short stumpy wizard doing battle with a warrior wearing a bright
crimson suit of armor. The wizard seems to be getting the worst of the battle. At various
points the scenes depict a variety of magical attacks being defeated by the armored figure, who
is pursuing the wizard determinedly.

The delvers will geta chance to inspect this wonderful armor firsthand. There before
the party, in the center of the room, arrayed on a frame manikin is the same suit. Needless
to say it reeks of magic at a level so high, and spells so over lain that it is hard to discern just
exactly what they are intended to do.

If the party is wise they will give this armor a wide birth, but if they were wise they
would not be traipsing about this deep delver shredding machine.

The armor seems to consist of crimson baked ceramic panels. Close inspection will
show these panels to be made up of tightly packed fibers in a resinous matrix, baked into the
various necessary forms for plate armor. The most unique aspect of this suit is that the helm

DUNGEON
OF:

DOOM

 

 

HERE'S TO

THE AGONY
OF DA’ FEET!

 

Page 39
