 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 40

is featureless. There are no eye openings at all. In all other respects this armor seems made
to fit a normal human.

Don’t fear; eventually someone will crack. Then either they will try it on, or some
member of the party will be “volunteered” to try it on. Better still, not trusting each other
various members of the party will try on various parts at the same time. What they will find
is that the armor will conform to who ever dons it, from the most petite female rogue to the
most burly brute of a warrior. The second thing they will note is that the armor will not allow
itself to be wom over other protection. If a delver attempts to put the armor on over another
piece of armor, reguardless of its nature, the crimson armor will absorb the other piece and
the original armor will no longer exist!

The party can test the armor to their hearts content. Magical spells cast at the armor
are either deflected off, in thecase of the more elemental powers, flame, wind, or energy blasts,
or they are absorbed into the fabric of the armor in the case of more cerebral spells, like mind
control, illusions, or death spells that attack the substance of ones being. It is proof against
enchantment up to any level the party, in fact any party can generate. All in all it is a most
remarkable suit!

In all the joy of finding a room where nothing is trying to kill them, and a treasure
that is genuinely a treasure, the party may not notice that the frame manikin from which they
extracted the suit is still radiating very powerful magic. This will require a direct detection
of magic spell upon the frame manikin. The only spell remaining hereupon is one ofrestraint,
at an unprecedented level. (Note the subtle hint!) The party will also note if a wizard tries
to cast magic with the armor, or a piece of the armor on he finds that the armor works just as
well from the inside as from the outside. In factif the wizard is wearing the gauntlets and casts
a flame spell he will be subject to the blast reflected back into the gauntlets and toasting his
hands!

If all this seems too good to be true IT IS. The effect of the armor will begin once
the wearer is outside the 30-foot range of the frame manikin. This armor is in fact proof against
all magical attack. It was created to house the deamonic assassin sent by Selgolub in one of
the earliest attempts to destroy Evinrood. This deamonic agent still exists, trapped by
Evinrood within the fabric of the armor itself. The armor cannot act as an agent of destruction,
not having the substance to move itself unaided. The imprisoned deamon trapped therein can
and will take over the wearer and thus once again become the killing machine it once was.

If one member of the party is wearing the armor he will be destroyed by the deamon,
and the armor-encased monster will attack the party with a vengeance. The magic defense
capabilities are already known, as for the deamons martial skills, he will have whatever
weapons the character previously had and 5 times the physical attributes. The armor will take
up to 20 points of physical damage per turn without material damage. Magical weapons are
ineffective against it except as they represent the weapon type. (For example: The
“Broadsword of Burning” usually a 100D6 weapon, has the affect of an ordinary broadsword.)

The best form of chaos is if two or more members of the group are wearing parts of
the armor. Then the deamon takes them all over. The thus-subjected members of the party
then will attack all the unaffected party members. (The parts of the “deamonized” characters
protected by the armor are defended as above, but there is no enhancement of attributes.)
If the attackers are successful they will turn on each other until there is only one left who will
don all the armor and stalk out of the dungeon seeking the shade of Evinrood! If the remaining
unaffected members of the party can render the affected members unconscious they can
remove the armor and toss it back into the room, where the restraint spell holds the deamon
contained, and the unconcious delvers will return to normal. (This trick only works with partial
armor wearers, if the affected delver is wearing the whole suit, even if the armor is defeated
he is dead.

While nota genuine trap in the mechanical sense this armored suit is better than fly
paper where tomb robbers are concerned. Still it only rates three skulls. The whole setup is
absolutely safe if the delvers just say, “No.”
