Trap #31: Proof Positive That All High Level Mages Are Screwy!

To leave the armor room requires that the party find one of two doors concealed under
the stucco, or they can return the way they came. If they detect the hidden doors they will find
that there is one on the right as they entered the room, and one on the left. The doors are
centered in the middle of each respective wall, and are the usual 3 hole lock type, 10 feet wide.
Starting with the right hand side the party will find the door opens into the armor room, and
that it leads into a small 10 foot by 10 foot hallway. Directly opposite the door through which
they entered is another door. This one is also the standard dungeon door, and it opens inward.

The room revealed by this door is decorated in the most amazing style. The entire
room is covered in stucco, with the exception of the floor, which appears to be inlaid stone.
The predominating pattern is one of large circles. The room is 30 by 30 feet with a 30 foot
tall ceiling. Centered on each wall, the ceiling and the floor are a recurring design. A large,
12 foot, circle, centered by a much smaller one, about 1 foot in diameter. The large circle is
painted a rusty iron reddish brown, with the center, smaller circle being gold.

 

 

Close inspection of the gold circle in each wall will reveal that each disk is inlaid in
the plaster, and bisected with a groove. If the party senses for magic they will find that there
is none to be found anywhere in the room. The groove in the golden disks is just right to
accommodate a broken sword, or flattened shovel blade. (I for one have seldom seen a delving
party in posession of a 1 foot wide screw driver, but with dungeon delvers...you never know.)

If the party starts with the disks on the wall they will find that by twisting the disks
they will work free of the walls. They are about 1 inch thick and seem to be solid gold (value
about 1,500 g.p.). The one in the ceiling is exactly the same. (Lest the delvers try to pull a
fast one on you, remember the door makes it so there is only three disks from the walls, and
the ones in the floor and ceiling.) The disk in the floor will prove a little bit of a problem, it
seems to be attached to a somewhat larger, or perhaps thicker disk. _If the party contin-
ues turning the disk in the floor will begin to show itself to be in fact much deeper than the
ones on the walls.

The floor disk is in facta large golden screw, turned into the floor. As the party turns
it out they will see there is much more gold in this object than in the other four put together.
Once the screw has withdrawn 1 and 1/2 feet out of the floor, the trap will be activated.

This screw is in fact an anchor for a large iron piston in the floor. Once the screw
is withdrawn the entire 12 foot iron disk is propelled to the ceiling by pneumatic pressure.
Clearly this will have a deleterious affect on any delvers turning the screw, as well as anyone
loitering around near by. There is a 40% chance (L4) that a lucky or agile delver could leap
free before the deadly impact. (For real amusement value allow partial success to count and
have the delvers pinned by various crushed appendages depending on the amount by which
they miss their rolls.)

Allis not lost: with much grunting and groaning the party, using brute force and

 

DUNGEON
—— OF

DOOM

 

C7

Page 41
