DUNGEON
OF
D oO oO M leverage, can still pry the screw free from its resting place mashed into the ceiling. The value
of the gold screw is easily 10 to 15,000 g.p.
There is no other exit from this room save the door that the party entered from.
As artistic as this trap is, once again it requires a large blind spot on the part of the
delvers. Three skulls for lethality, one if the party has the collective brains of a handful of
walnuts. (Well, they might actually figure this one out!)

 

 

Trap #32: “To Sleep, Perchance To Dream...”

The party will be forced to backtrack through the armor room. From here they can
either flee the dungeon, hopefully screaming in terror, or they can go over to the door that was
on the left, as they originally entered the armor room.

Once the typical 3 hole lock has been overcome, they will find themselves in a
corridor 10 feet wide and 20 feet long and 15 feetin height. The door at the end of the corridor
is truly different from most of the rest encountered so far.

Itis set in the middle of a wall covered in green tiles. Itis only 5 feet wide and 8 feet
tall. It is made of red stone with the details of a great battle graven on its surface. There is
anarmy of hundreds of warriors arrayed against one man standing upona small hill. The single
man resembles the depictions of Evinrood that the gang of tomb robbers have seen before. The
army is led by a huge figure on a horse drawn chariot. There is no magic on the door, and it
has a common knoblike handle.

Ifany member of the party turns the knob there will be a loud bang, and the knob will
explode in the hand of the person who turned it. If the character is not using a gauntlet the
damage to the hand is considerable! (Barring magical intervention he will lose effective use
of the hand.) If the delver in question is armored, and the armor is not magically impenetrable,
he will find that while the explosion has not affected him, there are a number of small metal
fragments that have penetrated his gauntlet. If the armor is magically impervious then the trap
is wasted! (Curses, foiled again!)

If the character is wearing the non-magical gauntlet, he will likely start pulling the
flechettes out of his paw. When he removes the last one he will begin to feel the effects of
the herbal potion that was applied to the knob. (If the guy had no gauntletatall, exsanguination
will serve to flush the potion’s affects right out of the system. Lucky him.)

The potion’s effect is to cause the delver to fall into a deep narcotic sleep. This will
last for 5 full game turns, despite all efforts to mitigate the result. During this time the delver
will be subjected to wildly hallucinogenic dreams. These dreams will forecast the termination
of members of the party in a variety of horrible fashions. The visions never show the traps
themselves, only the end results: bodies covered with bugs, characters entombed in sand, or
writhing on the floor of a room clutching at their throat. I’m sure you get the picture.

(Note: Take the player aside and tell him all this. It will sow the seeds of dissent,
even if the player rushes back in and tells the whole truth. No one will be entirely sure he
isn’t holding out.)

After the knob explodes there will be revealed a panel under the remains of the lock
trap. This panel will have the familiar 3 hole lock mechanism. The door opens outward into
= the corridor. This trap set-up rates as at two skulls.

 
     
    
       
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

GEE...
AT LEAST € GET
A CAMEO IN

THIS BOOK!

  

Trap #33: “A Thousand And One Ways To Use Killer Bees!”

This trap is a genuine work of art. I won’teven let Grimtina come into this room for
obvious reasons. It is grim and foreboding in its potential, and beautiful in its execution. The
open door brings the party face to face with a horse drawn chariot at full charge.

The wild eyed stallions are literally about to lunge through the open portal upon the
unsuspecting party. The delvers torch light will flash brightly in the glaring eyes and caress
the contours of the flaring nostrils. This apparition should cause even the most hardened delver
to jump back.

Afteramomentary pause the party will find that they are confronted not by a warrior’s
ghost reaching across the span of time since the tomb was closed but a remarkably life like
reproduction of a battle chariot. As the party looks into the room they will find it is filled with
