 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 44

the operative word intrusion. This means any form of entrance into theroom. If, forexample,
the party looses a crossbow into the room intrusion will have taken place.) When the magic
dissipates there is no noticeable affect. (Most delvers hate the line, “No NOTICEABLE
effect.” they are sure there is some UNnoticed affect that they have missed.)

There is very little room in the chamber to move about. The statue-soldiers are
packed in with only inches separating them. A close tactile investigation of the arrayed force
will reveal them to be fired terracotta. They are a brightly painted porcelain army, each one,
his weapons and armor, of a single piece.

Now I, for one, see the party reacting in much the same way that it did when
confronted with the crystal warriors earlier; that being to start smashing the statuary. This
is the natural tendency of a gang of delvers when confronted with any extremely valuable, but
vaguely threatening object. If they do follow this course they will find the statues easy to upset.
In fact they are balanced in‘such a manner that it is almost impossible not to tip one into the
next, like giant dominoes. The resulting serial crashing should momentarilly warm the
cockles of the delvers tiny vandalistic hearts. Then will come the time to pay the piper, or
in this case the beekeeper.

If the tomb robbers are still possessed of one or two thinking individuals, or are
operating on a greed based system of looting, the value of these statues will be immediately
obvious. Each one is an artistic masterpiece from an era gone these thousands of years. If
they could be transported intact to a major city they would havea market value as highas 3,000
g.p.each. This would diminish if they were dumped on the marketall at once buteven massed
as a haul they would bring 875 g.p. each. The chariots would be worth three times that.

A party thinking like this will take great care not to break the statues. It is for their
benefit that the area is so closely packed, and the warriors so carefully balanced. Even with
due care, for a fully armed and equipped party to be able to cross this room to the dais will
require the utmost dexterity and agility. Notwithstanding their best efforts there is still a 20%
chance (L2) of accidentally setting off a smashing chain reaction.

The magic spell that dissipated at the party’s intrusion into the chamber was one that
held in a form of magical stasis the occupants of the statues. Contained within each statue is
asmall swarm of so-called Killer Bees. (Don’t you just love thatname, so evocative!) When
the chain reaction toppling begins, the bees will swarm, irritated by the crashing falls that
release them. To be sure a few will be done in by the crashing of the statue containers, but
rest assure there are more than enough survivors to go around.

The swarming bees are not dangerous as single individuals. (Although there is
always the pleasant possibility some delver is alergic, about 1% chance!) It is ina swarm, or
in this case groups of swarms, that they are lethal. Even armored tomb crashers are affected.
Any exposed patch of skin that can be reached by a creature smaller than 1/2 an inch in size
will be attacked.

Oh yea, there are ways to take care of these critters: poison gas, high grade
commercial bug bombs, a really large, fast anteater... but they are tough. Most parties won’t
survive to reach the coffin. (Now you see why this room is off limits to Grimtina, with her
dexterity it is not a matter of if, but when. I’m not that worried about her well being. It’s the
thought of sitting up nights with a pot of super-glue trying to reset this baby...)

This trap is beautiful to look at, but rates only two skulls. The bees will chase the
delvers off. Chances of death are slim.

Trap #34: “Did Some One Mention Poison Gas?”

After the beauty of the last trap the childish simplicity of this next one is almost
embarrassing. Upon reaching the coffin the party will find that it has a lid that is almost
indistinguishable from the base. The stone from which the coffin is carved is unlike any you
have ever seen. Even a dwarf will be hard pressed to remember any like it. The stone is rare
and of great inherent value, perhaps as much as 15,000 g.p. delivered in useable condition.
A dwarf, if present, will have a60% chance to identify it as having been quarried on the long
lost continent of Hy-atlan, sunk beneath the sea millennia ago during the myth-shrouded Age
of Upheaval. This stone’s like is found nowhere else in the world today.
