 

This is all very nice and will serve to cloud the issue. Once the party summons up
the courage to open the lid they will release the trap mechanism.

Simply put, once the lid is moved a piston that fills the base of the coffin begins to
push upward forcing out of the long deep shaft within a heavier than air toxic cloud. Even
attempting to put the lid back in place will not stop the outflow forlong. The piston will simply
continue until the pressure build up is sufficient to displace the lid. The gas will begin to build
up and spill out over the floor. If the party left the entrance open it will not reach higher than
the delvers ankles. If the door was left closed then the room will eventually fill. This will kill
any remaining bees, and any air breathing members of the party.

There is a 90% chance (L2) of any one member of the party reaching the door and
opening it, this will diminish by 10% for each passing minute until the point of 0% chance
then the party will be beyond caring if the doors are open or closed.

If by some miracle there are non-air breathing members of the tomb robbing team,
or they get the door open they will find no treasure inside the coffin.

The gas trap is a one skuller, unless the party is made up of real boneheads.

Trap #35: “Cummon Guys Get A Grip!”

Once the party has exhausted all the options of this room without finding the elusive
treasure, they will begin to search the walls for doors. On the wall opposite the entrance
beneath the stucco, as usual, there can be found two doors. The doors are located just beyond
the ends of the coffin at either end of the platform. PN i

Both doors are of the three
finger hole type, and once opened
present the delver with the same
vista. The doors open into the room
of the terra cotta soldiers, and reveal
a 10 foot by 10 foot shaft leading
down. There is aladderineach shaft,
but it is on the wall opposite the door
in each case.

Let us begin with the door
ontheright. Clearly to goon willcall
for a leap of faith. Sure there are
ways to laboriously inch a party’s
way around the walls over to the
ladder. Pitons and climbing ropes,
and such craven devices come to
mind. A more likely delver I.Q.
level solution will be to tie a rope to
a party member and have him jump
over, and grab hold of the ladder. To
the party’s surprise this will work. It
will also set off the trap.

In a reservoir at the top of
the ladder is a tank of thin, and
extremely slippery, oil. When the
first party member’s weight is put
upon the ladder it will slip down a
fraction of an inch, allowing the oil
to run down the sides of the ladder.
Very little of the oil will get on the
crossties, but close observation will
reveal the crossties are set in parellel
grooves on the sides of the ladder.
The oil will coat the sides very,
quickly. Other than glistening in the

 

 

 

 

DUNGEON
——.0F:

DOOM

 

   
