 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

&] & &

 

Page 46

torch light the oil will seem to have no affect.

Atsome point the party will have to continue on down. If they give up on the ladder
all together they will need 90 feet of rope to reach the bottom of the shaft. If they trust the
ladder, they will find, if their initial tester is willing to climb up and down a little, that the
ladder is perfectly safe and solid for at least the the first 25 feet down, and back up. Hopefully
at this point, oily sides notwithstanding, the delvers are likely to give the ladder a try.

Ata point 55 feet down there is a series of 10 rungs, any one of which will cause the
trap to activate. Once weight is brought to bear on one of these rungs a release in the upright
sides of the ladder is tripped, and all the cross ties are released. As they have been thoroughly
lubricated, they will slide down the grooves until they reach the bottom of the shaft, 45 to 90
feet below. Efforts to grab hold of the sides of the ladder are largely futile. First because of
the lubricant oil, and second because of the falling cross ties. Any grip will necessarily require
all or part of the delvers hand to cover the groove. Thump, the first cross tie hits, thump, the
second, the third, and so fourth, the chinese water torture has nothing on this. Eventually the
repeated impacts, or the weight of the mounting crossties (not to mention other members of
the party foolish enough to be on the ladder above) will knock even the toughest delver off,

Eventually the tomb robbers will end up in a heap along with 80 metal crossties at
the bottom of the shaft. The shaft and the ladder end 10 feet before the actual floor as the tunnel
continues off in that direction.

This is a three skull trap, fairly lethal. It escapes four skulls by the fact that most
delvers will tie themselves off to the top somehow, and thus escape the death plummet.

If the party elects to continue on down the tunnel thus discovered return to the portion
of the tomb labeled “RIGHT FACE!” and run the traps in reverse order! This corridor will
dead end next to the door out of which Trap #14 “Things Get All Screwed Up.” emerges.

Trap #36: “So You Want To Get To The Bottom Of This, Eh?”

To avoid a long description, the door on the left leads to a shaft and ladder
arrangement exactly the same in appearance to the one behind the door on the right. There
are two differences. The first is that the shaft behind this door is 200 feet deep, and the second
is that there is no vat of oil at the top of this ladder. As with Trap #35, the party will in all
likelihood be reluctant to just jump over and grab arung. With patience and careful coaxing
they will eventually work up the requisite nerve to perch themselves on the ladder. They will
be sure of some doom befalling them on the ladder, so this time there is a surprise in store for
them. The trap is at the bottom. After an agonizing descent the party will find itself within
10 feet of the bottom of the shaft when they run out of ladder. The party must drop to the floor
below. The first weight that hits the 10 by 10 foot space at the bottom of the shaft sets the trap
for the next. (Ideally the party will have dropped something down the shaftas a test and really
cooked their own geese.)

When the second weight hits the bottom of the shaft the 10 by 10 floor panel will
explode upward with great force! When the first weight hit the panel, it locked in place. Into
aroom below the panel, was vented water from the supply that honeycombs the tomb area.
This water comes into contact with another of Evinrood’s dormant fire elementals contained
herein. The water is converted to live steam, as the elemental is annihilated. Then the second
weight trips the release that causes the panel to be blown back up the shaft by the force of the
steam explosion. When the panel hits the ladder, parts of both will become shrapnel flying
back up the shaft.

There is a 10% chance (L10) of someone on the plate surviving. Delvers still on the
ladder have a 10% better chance (L9, L8, and so on) for each 10 feet up the ladder they are
located at the time of the explosion. (Thus someone still at the top will have a 70% chance
of not being hit by debris, and, or dislodged to plummet to the room below.) The ladder will
be ruined by all this, and certain members of the party as well!

Four big skulls for this one, death is not only likely, but probable for at least one of
the tomb robbers! It's a great way to give the delvers the shaft...
