DUNGEON
ae

Trap #37: “Evinrood Trys To Dust Off The Party.” DOOM

 

Any party members who survive the Explosion will find themselves in a rapidly
filling pool of water at the bottom of the ladder shaft. This is not intended as a trap in and
of itself, it being the last remnant of the water supply used to set the trap originally. The space
at the bottom of the shaft will fill up to the level of the old floor then stop. This does create
apool 10 feet deep, in the 10 by 10 foot shaft. Heavily armored delvers will be well advised
to exit as fast as they can through a door in the wall directly under the place where the ladder
ended. (Any delvers that are really slow on the uptake can be forced to make a roll to survive
being immersed. However, at this point it is unlikely that any of them will be dumb enough
to stand about and wait for the water to lap over their heads.)

The delvers will find themselves in a corridor 30 feet long and 10 feet wide. At the
corridors end there is an obvious door. The doors surface is covered with bronze plate into
which a design has been impressed. The design shows the stubby figure you recognize as
Evinrood. He seems to be fighting a battery of half-seen images, the rest of the inlaid figures
are very indistinct. They seem to be horrific creatures but the work appears to be incomplete
and the images only half formed.

The door has a golden lever as its latch release. (The gold value is about 150 to 175
g.p.—the question WILL be asked.) This will give the party a few moments of concern,
especially when they pluck up the courage to turn it. (A gang of delving thugs don’t like
anything out of the ordinary, and will often bicker about the “signs and portents” of a
“different” event endlessly!)

When the latch is depressed there is an audible “click”. (If you thought the party was
concerned before this should put them really on edge.) The door opens into the hallway and
reveals a room 30 feet by 30 feet with a 20 foot ceiling. In the center of the room is a raised
dais on which sits yet another sarcophagus. Above the sarcophagus there is a vast, rapidly
turning ceiling fan, the arms of which are over 10 feet in length. It is made of woven rattan
and as such it is not likely to be lethal. (Ah, those whirling blades of doom, I have used them
well, alas.) The fan does cause a fairly stiff breeze within the confines of the room.

The sarcophagus is made of black stone, and is very plain, save that the lid is held in place
by four golden balls. These balls are very large, 14 inches in diameter, and appear to be ALL THEY ARE
attached somehow to the top of the sarcophagus. D ST IN THE

The walls of the room are covered with a fresco of Evinrood working in what seems to 1s Raine
bea laboratory, when a large birdlike creature arrives with a parcel. Out of the parcel emerges oe
anarmy of misshapen deamons. Evinrood struggles in vain against them and is overwhelmed.
The last panel shows Evinrood rising from the floor in his laboratory, and the deamons are
gone. Every last one of them, vanished!

The frescos will serve more to confuse the party than aid it, but then what can they
expect from clues provided by an eccentric high-level mage?

The tomb robbers will try a variety of methods to open the sarcophagus before trying
the gold balls. Which they are sure are will release some bizarre doom. But, gold being gold,
the balls will keep drawing them back. The balls are screwed onto metal posts at the corners
of the sarcophagus. They will turn easily and after a point they will come free. The balls are
fairly thick but hollow, their value in gold is 1,250 g.p. each. But their chief value will not
be the gold but what they contain.

Justas the party frees the first ball (It would be really wild if the delvers would release
all the balls at once!) a very fine whitish-pink powder will spill out of the ball. This will be
very hard to stop as the posts are 5 inches in diameter, and the party is unlikely to expect the
golden ball to be a container. The party will also be lifting the ball off the post so a large spill
is even more likely. The powder is so fine that the wind from the fan will swirl it instantly
about the room. If the delvers trashed the fan earlier on, in act of delverlike vandalism the
effect will be diminished but by no means eliminated.

The powder is the “dust” of the “Blood Dream Poppy”. It is a violent, and nearly
instantaneous hallucinogen. Characters with below average constitutions (including those
who’s constitutions have been weakened by trap damage) will succumb instantly to the drugs
effects. These individuals will collapse to the floor writhing and twitching in fear from dreams

 
 
