Ifthe party entered this trap from the Trap Door in the floor under the chests of cloth, reverse
the operation of the entrance door, Trap #38. We wouldn't want the party to miss out on any
of the fun, would we? And keep in mind the level of thirst keeps increasing. This could force
trips up and down the ladder for water while the party waits for the door to open. Remember
the canteens will be dry before they can cross the room from the Trap Door to the regular
entrance.
X
Trap #40: “...Cool, Clear, Water!”

When the party emerges from the thirty foot corridor leading to the store room they
will find that the stone block at the end of the original corridor is gone! They will also trigger
a tilt plate that was not set until they opened the door to Trap #38.

This tilt plate starts a lyrical sound that right now is better than music to the delvers
ears: The sweet tinkle of a fountain. The party can see it glinting in their torch light 40 feet
away. The sparkle of falling droplets will be an almostirresistible magnet to any party member
who was in the store room for Three turns. (There is a 50-50 chance (L5) he will rush the water
obsessively.) Those who have not entered the room, or were in the room for only one or two
turns will be able to resist the lure.

Those party members who were in the room FOUR turns or more, will go mad with
thirst and bolt for the water with a berserk singlemindedness! The beauty of this trap begins
to unfold. (Now comes the REALLY great part!)

Upon entering the room the party will find a large shallow fountain. In the center
of the fountain is the statue of a fishbodied deamon from whose mouth issues the scintilating
stream of “water”. The pool surrounding the fountain is over twenty feet round and almost
fills the 30 foot by 30 foot room. The pool is only 2 feet deep, and in the bottom can be seen
the glint of gold pieces. There are over 10,000 g.p. scattered about the bottom of the pool.
The gold will make literally no difference to the berserk Three turn delvers and all Four or

more turn delvers, What they see is the water!
The whole pointis that this is

not water! This isan extremely caustic
concentration of sulfuric acid! Delv-
ers in full possession of their faculties
will have a30% chance (L3) of detect-
inga faint tell-tale aroma that will give
them pause, butthe rest are Doomed to
a hideous, burning demise!

There are always spoil sports
in every crowd. If adelver detects the
strangeness of the water he (or they)
may attempt to restrain their more
affected counterparts. Their friends
will fight furiously with whatever
means is at hand to get to the “water”.
The carnage will be wonderful.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SS)

DUNGEON
———= OF:

DOOM

 
