 

DUNGEON

OF

 

DOOM

 

Page 52

Ae

     
    

Assuming that no member of the party was in the store room too long, but they all
fail to react to the acid smell, there is always the presence of the gold to get a delver to reach
into the pool.

This acid will effect metal even more than leather armor, and is more likely to “leak”
into it. Flesh will be extremely adversely affected by the acid. (I’d call turning bright red,
blistering, and peeling away in shreds adversely affecting, but I’mabig fan of adverse affects.)

Any metal tools used to fish out the gold will be functionally useless after two turns
from the effects of the acid. (Itis very unlikely the party will have anything to dilute the acid,
ora sufficient supply of caustic base substance to neutralize it on the tools or exposed skin.)

This trap is so diabolically set up that in combination with The Desication Room it
rates the brightest four skulls. Even without the “dying of thirst” aspect the room rates three
skulls on the premise that the delvers will play with it until they get burned.

Trap #41 “These Things Tend To Get Away From You!”

There is an open doorway leading out of this room on the wall to the left of the entry.
There isa hidden door directly opposite the store room entrance, but the party will have to find
it. Detection magic, or stucco flaking again is required. If the party does detect it and goes
that way advance in the text to LOADING THE GUN, and continue on. If the party looks to
the open doorway this is what they find.

First they will find a small plaque on the wall about eye level to a human. It is
inscribed, West Construction, Wayne West Chief Engineer. They also find themselves
looking down a long flight of stairs into the darkness.

These stairsare over 70 feet long.
Magic users will detect a slight magical
aura. Each step is possessed of a low level
magical charm. It appears to be akin to
some of the less effective spells of combat
enhancement that lower level wizards
might cast. It has been laid on in such a
way that it cannot be dispelled, but on the
whole is not too threatening:

Ifany member of the party elects
to try the stairs the spells effect will
become obvious. Each step doubles the
rate of speed at which it was entered. Step
down at walking pace, the next step is
taken ata trot, then a run, by turn four the character is sprinting! There are 70 steps the speeds
attainable can be amazing.

The character will not be able to control his momentum by conventional means.
Though you may find that clever delvers will attempt various devices, I leave it to you to judge
their success. (Once again a wizard could fly off then regain control, but others who must
remain in the grip of gravity will have to resort to more innovative solutions.)

At the bottom of the stairs is a locked stone door. At the speed the delver should be
going there is certain to be a wonderful, SPLAT! or at the very least the satisfying CRUNCH!
of breaking bones. In the event that the delver or delvers can open the door on the fly, with
a spell or magic charm, an even greater surprise awaits them.

This trap will work in reverse, accelerating upwards until at blinding speed the stair
climber is propelled into the Acid pool room and into the 2 foot high edge of the pool itself.
There is only a 10% chance (L7) to avoid falling into the pool unless the character can find
a way to slow down! (I really love it when these things work so well in both directions.)

Up or down this babe is a four skuller. In acid or onto spears at several times the speed
aman can run with virtually no safeguards... Even if the character runs into the door at the
bottom without opening it the result will be heralded by the satisfying crunch of breaking
bones. These are a few of my favorite sounds...

BS | CONSTRUCTION |F
WAYNE WEST | Big
| CHIEF ENGINEER

  

 
