Trap #42: “And You Thought You Got Away.”

Picture this, the tomb traipser is blazing down the stairs, at the last second he magics
the lock in the door, and it flies open to reveal 10 feet away a wall of spears! The look on their
faces is priceless! (Disappointingly there is a slim chance of survival, about 20% (L6), from
acrobatic contortions out of the way. But if they miss the spears there is still the impact with
some other part of the room. This will generate disabling damage in 50% of the cases (L5).

The spears are 10 feet long and crafted of dwarvish steel. They are set lightly in
sockets in the wall and can be easily removed. Due to the craftsmanship involved in their
construction they are worth 10 times what spears of this type would be worth. (That’s about
400 g.p. each, and there are 30 of them.)

As competent trap masters you will recqgnize that as difficult as it is there are those
who will survive these stairs. Fear not, this room will not let them go that lightly. For those
who reach the bottom of the stairs unscathed (or by virtue of unbelievable constitutions only
slightly scathed,) they will have to open the door and enter in a more conventional manner.
If they do this they will be treated to the second best part of this trap.

The party will be naturally

DUNGEON
OF-

DOOM

 

 

 

surprised when the spears in the far
wall do not leap out atthem. After a
time they will begin to think perhaps
these are time released and want to
enter the room. A 10 foot by 10 foot
square section of the floor just inside
the entrance is a trap door. When the
first party member enters, the floor
falls away forward and down, deposit-
ing the hapless creature in a 10 by 10
foot by 20 foot deep pit under the floor.
The unique thing about this trap, since
I know you expect something better
than an ordinary hole in the floor from
your host, is that the floor section that
falls away under the victim’s weight is
joined by an axle to the section of floor
under the wall of spears. As a result
when the floor falls the other floor
section will pivot upward taking the
wall of spears with it. The wall of
spears will crash into the wall above
the door and the spears will drop into
the pit impailing the poor fellow who
first entered. (Heavily armored char-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPEAR WALL &
FLOOR SECTION}
FLIP OVER

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPEARS '
= FALL IN

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

5

DELVER PALLS INE

 

 

 

 

  
  
   
  

 

 

 

acters may survive; there is a 60%

chance (L4) that the spears will not 18%,

 

 

 

  

 

 

punch through. Keep in mind they’? TRY WIGGLIES SPEARMENT GUM...

heavy spears & razor sharp!)

The best part of this trap is that in order to proceed the party must trip the trap, because
the wall of spears is the exit to the room!

If by some mischance the room is entered from the opposite direction this trap will
be activated resulting in the spears falling harmlessly into the pit. Ifold Evinrood was perfect,
being a high level wizard, he’d probably still be with us. (An elaboration that suggests itself,
would be to put a weight limit on the initial floor section in order to “trap” more delvers. This
could backfire however if the party enters one at a time.)

Once the trap has been tripped the way is open to proceed.

In concert with the stairs the trap is a 3 skuller, and entered from the Acid fountain
side without benefit of speed it is still a two skull trap, but alas if entered from the wrong
direction the whole thing is a bust.

Page 53

 
