 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 54

Trap #43: “I Always Figgured Tomb Robbers Deserve A Good Trashing.”

Upon exiting the “wall of spears” room the party will find themselves in a small
corridor 10 feet wide and 20 feet long, with a ceiling 10 feet high. At the end is a blank wall.
Beneath the stucco isa typical three finger hole door. Once the party has opened the door they
will find a 30 by 30 foot room with the usual doorless walls. They are covered with stucco.
The floor is divided into four square sections, of four different colors. The colors are irrelevant
butin order toadd to the partys confusion by feeding idle speculation, they are red, gold, green
and blue. Once the party begins to enter the room keep track of the total weight of the
characters. You don’t want to be caught unawares when the 500 Ib. limit is reached and the
trap activates.

Once 500 Ibs of tomb robber on the hoof enters the room the floor splits down the
middle and dumps the entrants into the jaws of a giant bladed thrashing machine. The floor
then slams back into place.

The thrasher is a truly inspired device. No dungeon should be without one. This
beauty consists of two giant counterrotating axles studded with crude, rusty, iron blades. The
whole mechanism is built 20 feet below the floor level. The blades are set to rotating by
surprisingly noiseless water wheels fed from the underground river. The water is released
into the trap by the opening of the doors. (If the party lays on the ground before entering they
will hear the sound of rushing water, and perhaps the rumble of the turning wheel, but
seriously, when was the last time you saw a party of delvers do that?)

There is a 30% chance (L3) that heavy plate armor will jam the works, which will
save all the others who fell in from death. Those more lightly armored will have a 30% chance
of being injured by the fall into the blades, even if they are jammed. If the party has any
“Indestructible” item, (A Delux Staff, The Sword of Incredible Hardness, or such like.) this
will serve to jam the device as well.

Anything used to jam the thrasher will be lost. The blades cannot be pried apart with
the pressure of the river pressing upon it. If the person inside the plate armor can demonstrate
the ability to get out of the armor by wriggling about (About 40% (L4) will be able to manage
this trick) he can get free. If that agile, he will be subject to the same damage as one of the
lightly armored fellows when the thrasher jerks snug, crushing or twisting some now empty
piece of armor.

Below the thrasher there is a wide assortment of chipped bones crushed armor, and
battered odds and ends. There is also about 3,000 g.p. worth of loose change.

Once the mechanism that operates the floor sections has been understood, or jammed,
the party can check out the walls for doors.

With armor thisis only aone skull trap, butif there isno heavy armor present, itmoves
up to a 3 skuller.

Trap #44: “This Trap Is A Gas!”

Directly across the room from the “wall of spears” door can be found a typical three
finger hole door under the stucco. Once it is opened the treasure hunters will find a corridor
10 feet wide 10 feet high, and 20 feet long. This hall ends in a bronze door.

The bronze door depicts upon its beautifully crafted surface a human figure wreathed
in flames. The figure is beset by deamonic figures who are doing their best to destroy the
flaming humanoid.

In the center of the door is a wheel. Turning this device seems to be the only way
to open the door.

Once the party begins to turn the wheel, acap in the center of the wheel pops off giving
vent to a thin high pitched hissing sound. There is a 30% chance (L3) someone in the party
will recognize the danger. And in any event the unusual noise will doubtless have the party
scrambling back to the edge of the Thresher room.

If the individual turning the wheel is made of sterner stuff, or is too stupid to care,
check to see if he is holding a torch, or if there is someone within 5 feet of him holding a torch,
lamp or like incendiary device. If there is, then an unpleasent explosion occurs. The door
