DUNGEON
re OF:

ishollow and solid metal. It was chilled as much as possible then pumped full of an explosive D O oO M
gas, and the wheel driven in. Once the wheel is turned the venting system in its center releases

the gas. If the delver stays with the door despite the hissing and an explosion results, there

will be relitively little gas present. The delver at the door will find all his cloth garments on

fire, as well as his hair, but if he thinks quickly he can save himself, or be saved by having

the flames smothered in short order. There is a 20% chance (L2) that he will not panic.

If the delvers stayed with the door and the small explosion resulted, there will be a
small jet of flame out the center of the wheel, until the gas has burned off then the door will
be safe to open. (Note the party will almost certainly use the wheel to pull the door open, it
will be very hot after all this time spouting flame. It will contribute to the comic fun if one
or two members of the gang of thieves scorch their paws before they figure this out.)

The best result on this trap is if the party is in fact timorous. They will back up as
far as they can, or better still retreat into the Thresher Room. If this is the case the gas will
vent entirely into the hall way where it will collect, invisible but deadly. The party hearing
the hissing die down will think that it is safe and reenter the hall. Whereupon the first torch,
lantern, or such like incindiary device, will set off a massive explosion!

There is a 40% (LA) chance of injury from the concussion. The entire membership
of the party in the hall at the time will be set on fire. Promptaction by any members notalight
will be needed to aid these new members of Human Torchdom.

After all the fireworks the door will open easily.

The trap is a two skuller due to the fact that most of the potential damage is the result
of the fires ignited by the gas, and these are easily dealt with if the party acts quickly.

Trap #45: “This Will Really Light Your Fire!”

The room entered through the bronze door is 30 by 30 feet with a vaulted ceiling
consisting of four triangular panels which meet at a square peak 30 feet overhead.

On the walls to the right and left are frescoes of a magical being striding through
massed hordes of deamons. The creature seems to be a mass of flame with human features.

In the wall opposite the door is an alcove, in the center of which is a golden chain,
draped over a wooden rest. On the chain is a golden amulet in the center of which is a green
stone. It is clearly an emerald. Any jewelers or dwarves in the group begin to drool
immediately. Its value is easily over 25,000 g.p.! It is also, for those parties that can check
this out, fairly reeking of magic.

After the usual chattering about who will have
the dubious honor of stealing the necklace some mem-
ber of the party will eventually attempt to do so. This,
of course is when the fun begins.

I, for one, think Evinrood is being far too
generous with great loot at this point, but what the hey,
maybe a few baubles keeps the party motivated to
march to thier doom.

The tomb robber who plucks free the necklace
will notice there is a slight resistance to this. A small
wire is fastened to the amulet itself, and leads into the
base of the alcove. If the would-be thief inspects the
base, even carefully, the chances are very, very slim of
his noticing the single wire. This is due to the fact that
the gold necklace is made up of hundreds of loose wires
unbraided or bundled, so there are dozens of them that
mingle with the one key wire. (In the spirit of fairness,
—ptooee! There is a 10% chance (L9) that the wire
MIGHT be detected. Fairness, -gag- who ever thought
I’d be saying that, must be getting soft...)

The wire releases a trap which will be set in
motion slowly enough that if the necklace thief wishes
to put the necklace on he may.

 

Page 55

 
