 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

 

Page 56

If the necklace is not put on this is the net result. There is a momentary pause then
the center portion of the vaulted ceiling plummets earthward. This event is followed almost
immediately by the triangular sections, which are hinged at their bases, swinging downward,
releasing the contents of the ceiling upon the party below. The room is 50 feet taller than the
ceiling and filled with loose rocks, gravel, and dust. This will crash down on the delvers,
suffocating those it does not crush outright! Those near the door (within 10 feet) have a 70%
chance (L3) to escape back into the hall. If there are members 20 feet from the door, they have
a50% chance (LS) of making the door, if they act fast! Those who are 30 feet from the door,
(this includes the delver holding the necklace,) only havea 20% chance (L8) to make the door.

When the dust settles the door to the room will be entirely filled with sifting rubble
from top to bottom, packed solid with the exception of slightly settling dust grains,

Now if the necklace thief wishes to don the purloined item the following events occur.
First, the delver immediately bursts into an eerie green flame, which suffuses his entire being.
He will not feel a thing, and will sense no difference, at the onset. The rest of the party will
be momentarily distracted. Then the ceiling will fall in! The chances will be 10% worse
because the party will be less alert. (60% (L4) from up to 10 feet, 40% (L6) from up to 20
feet, and finally 10% (L9) from 21 to 30 feet away.)

The delver translated into a Human Elemental will have a slightly higher chance of
escaping, as he is not distracted, and is already pointed in the right direction. (His odds are
the same as the startled party members at 20 feet from the door, 40% (L6))

If the character altered by the necklace is not trapped, and subsequently smothered
by the avalanche. He will find himself uniquely altered. He will find the amulet is now part
of his chest. Ifit is removed the delver’s body will be consumed by the elemental flame, but
the enchanted stone will remain. This stone was a failed experiment by Evinrood to create
an army of intelligent Elementals, the standard kind being very wild and hard to control due
to their limited intellegence and, well, Elemental nature. The experiment was a failure
because the “Human Elemental” created by the amulet while powerful was independently
intelligent and thus innately uncontrollable. (Just like real people. Oh gee, what a surprise!)

[This is a player’s note: The Elemental is burning: this will work well as a torch,
but don’t slap him on the back after a victory! Take the character’s attributes and add them
up into a total. This is the Elemental’s base attribute for any numbered attribute, except
Intelligence, and Luck for those games that have those attributes. He cannot use any weapon,
save perhaps those enchanted ones that happen to be indestructable, assuming the party
possesses one. The attribute total divided by 20 is the number of D6 flame based attack the
player may generate. This cannot be projected further than 10 feet, but may be manifested
as a “sword of fire” that juts from the player’s fist. This may seem to make the player very
tough, but there are some notorious disadvantages. The Elemental will take 10 times the
damage from a water, ice or steam based attack. He can be attacked by conventional weapons,
and takes 2 times damage from any enchanted weapons used against him. If the character is
buried entirely in the ground he will die. If he is trapped in a closed room he will use up the
available air 10 times as fast as a normal man. Finally if he is immersed in water, even for
an instant the result will be a steam explosion equal to ten times the number of dice his attack
can generate that will annihilate the character.]

The Avalanche is a four skull trap, but I still think the amulet is too much loot. If
the circumstances permit, you can swap some other nice shiny bauble and the delvers will
never be the wiser.

The only exit to this room is back into the Thresher, and from there to either the Wall
of Spears room, or the door to the right of the Amulet room. Whichever door the party did
not enter through will still be covered with stucco.

Trap #46: “Hit’em And Hit’em, This Trap Will Leave’em No Place To Go.”

Once this door is entered the party will find itself at the bottom of a circular staircase.
This stair has an unusually broad banister on both the inside central pole, and the outside
against the stone wall. The stair leads up into the darkness.

Once the party begins to ascend they will find the steps are a comfortable distance
apartand theclimb issmooth and gradual. There is no obvious problem, until the party reaches
