a point 50 feet up the cylindrical shaft of the stairs. At this point they will find a fine wire
stretching from one banister to the other.

This is so clearly a trap that the party will go to great lengths to avoid it. In so doing
they will not notice that 10 steps beyond this they will come to a series of 10 steps any one
of which when depressed will set off the trap at the top of the spiral stairs. (Keep in mind that
if descending this stair the trap will activate just as well.)

At the top a panel concealed beneath the stucco of the ceiling will open and out will
roll a gigantic stone ball over 10 feet in diameter. This will fall onto the banisters and race
down the stairs with escalating speed until it hits the party. The telltale crash and resultant
roaring rumble will hint to the party that something is on its way down to meet them.

The only way to avoid the doom which is decending upon the party is to get down
as low as possible on the stairs. (Note wizards have been able to fly out of many of these traps.
Lets hope they think like that now!)

Anyone who has not ducked under the ball will be hit by itabout chest high. The ball
does 300D6 damage and proceeds unimpeded.

While the party has been dodging the onrushing roar of this ball a second ball has been
released at the top only 5 seconds behind the first. This one is only slightly smaller than 10
feet and fits neatly under the banisters. This ball comes rumbling down the stairs.

Any delvers who feel neglected by the first ball will very likely meet the second. The
way to survive is to duck under the first ball, then jump up on the banister in the face of the
second, equally lethal ball. The balls will smash into gravel upon impact at the bottom, for
neatness sake.

Once again Evinrood delivers his customary one two punch, this one is a four skull
wonder, At the top of the stairs the party reemerges at the end of the hall of crystal warriors.

Trap #47: “Oh No, Not The Old Chutes And Razors Gag!”

Lest you think old Grimtooth has lost his marbles, I am aware that we missed
something back at Trap #39. There is another way out of the room housing the acid fountain.
It lies to the left of the “racing stairs” and directly across from the hall entrance leading from
the desiccation store room. As usual itlies beneath the stucco. It is the usual three finger hole
lock type entry.

Once the door has been opened the tombrobbers will seea long flight of stairs leading
down. In the distance at the limit of the torch light is the glint of bronze.

What follows is a trap so old and hackneyed I for one am almost embarrassed to see
it used, but perhaps this tomb was constructed so long ago that it was some what fresher then,
(Right, either that or Evinrood had dinosaur design consultants on this one.)

As the party pushes on down the stairs to a point about 25 feet down they will
encounter three steps in succession that set off the trap. And as if we did not all expect this,
the stair turns into a chute, in the ages old tradition of slapstick horror. Down the party will
slide to some unspeakable peril. You guessed it. Ata point on the chute 35 to 45 feet down
from the top, 6 inch long sharpened blades, shark’s tooth in shape project 6 inches into the
party’s path from wall to wall, one to a foot in a staggered pattern.

There isa fair chance that the delvers will fall for this if distracted, but even the most
naive young delver should recognize the potential ina decending stair. If, however, the delvers
are foolish enough to trip the trap, there isa 30% chance (L3) they will sustain damage of some
major sort to what ever portion of their body is pointed at the bottom of the chute.

I'll only dignify this one with two skulls, old saws like this one give trapmasters a
bad name, but they work so well...

Trap #48: “Arr! Here There Be Barried Treasure!”

The bronze door the tomb traipsers saw from the top isrevealed to be another of those
masterpieces of bronze casting that have been appearing throughout the tomb complex. It
depicts the stumpy figure of Evinrood standing in the prow of a sailing ship. Around him in
the air and the water are depicted the usual distorted humanlike figures of the elementals he
commands. In the distance is a ship which appears to be fleeing him.

DUNGEON
== TOR:

DOOM

BE) 2

 

 
