DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

 

Page 58

There is a wheel in the center of the door, which must be turned before it will open.

Tam fond of pointing out that there is usually some trepidation on the part of the party
when forced to do things they know from past experience can be fatal. This reaction should
be acute in this case, as there has been no previous time when turning one of these wheels has
notat least resulted in extreme discomfort. Restassured they will eventually turn it, curiosity,
cats and delvers all having a fatal relationship.

When the wheel is turned it will do so slowly, regardless of the strength of the
individual who is turning it. It will give out with a painful sounding squeal, as if some part
of the mechanism is badly corroded. And then...

The door will open, with no apparent ill effects! Suprised? Don’t be, the trap has
already been set in motion!

What the party sees js aroom full of pristine white sand. Itis loose, almost powdery,
but firm enough to walk on with little effort. In the center of the wall opposite the door on
the surface of the sand is a large “X”. This curious mark is laid out in a meticulous fashion
with a fine black sand. The implications are obvious, perhaps too obvious!

The desired reaction is that the delvers dig at this point. If they do so they will find,
ata point six feet down a chest. In the chest is a substantial amount of gold coinage, and a
map! (The inscriptions on the map are indistinct, more will be revealed about the map later!
See page 67.) The gold will total up to 5,000 g.p.

If the party wishes prudently to ignore the obvious invitation of the black “X”. They
will be able to indulge themselves in searching the room for other exits. In the upper most
comer on the same wall as the entrance door can be found, covered with stucco as usual, a
circular opening 3 feet in diameter! There is no other exit.

In the event that the party digs, or searches, the time taken will be roughly the same.
(If this seems unlikely, in the words of a famous leader of another era, “Make It So!” On this
trap timing is everything.)

When the door was opened to enter the room, it also opened, deep beneath the sand,
aseries of gratings, which allowed water from the underground river to begin to seep into the
bottom of the room. This water is under some pressure, taken as it is from up stream, and is
trying to reach its own level. Due to this pressure, perhaps seep is the wrong word, at any rate
the fine sand is rapidly becoming saturated from the bottom up. Lest the diggers be disturbed
immediately the room extends 30 feet down, below the sand’s surface.

While this may seem like a digression, a brief discussion of the dynamics of sand in
river beds is very relevant at this point. In what is a normally dry sandy river bottom a very
strange reaction can sometimes occur, when water is added due to flooding up stream. While
the river may not begin to actually flow, the water will return to the river bed, underground,
This will saturate the sand and at a certain point the sand will suddenly go from being a
supportive solid to a nonsupportive semi-liquid! Quicksand.

Back to the room. The water has been percolating into the sand for some time now.
If the party is searching the walls for alternate solutions to what seems to be their stymied
travels they will find one. The sand at their feet. Bloop! It will happen very fast. Those
in heavy armor will have the least reaction time, while those who are unarmored can even
manage to float fora time. Armored characters will have a base 50% chance (LA) to react;
this will be lowered by 10% for each 20Ibs. over 100 in weight the delveris carrying. Allother
tomb robbers will have a 70% chance (L3) chance to react. This will be modified down by
10% for every 20lbs. over 80 the delver is carrying. The reason for the suddenness of thisevent
is that when the sand reaches total saturation it in effect “turns over” under the heavier surface
features, having lost in that instant its load bearing capacity.

Now I'll grant you that only in the cases of those delvers grossly overloaded with,
say gold for instance, is this trap going to be fatal. Don’t let this get you down after all there
are those who will dig at the “X”!

In the case of the treasure hunters, a good thing to do will be to let them find the chest
and open it. They will start stuffing various pockets with the gold, increasing their weight.
Then point out the water that seems to be rising in the bottom of the hole! Frantic efforts to
get out can be played out, but keep in mind the ages old axiom, “Some Quick Sand Is Quicker
Than Others!” Bloop! Adjust the chances of failure up by 20% and you will have an excellent
Opportunity to teach a bunch of tomb robbers the delicate art of mud breathing!

 
