If the party is in the hole when the water saturates the sand, this is a3 skull trap. If
they are just rummaging around there are too many ways to out fox quicksand to rate it much
higher than a two skuller.

Trap #49: “You'll Get A Bang Out Of This One.”

The mere fact that the sand room is now filled with quicksand should only serve to
whet the delvers appetite for what is beyond it. There are many ways to get to the hole in the
wall that leads on from here. If the delvers are too simple minded, or faint hearted to go on,
don’t fear others will return who are not.

Just sit back and watch as they try to get to the 3 foot wide tunnel in the upper corner
of the room. .

The tunnel is dark, over 110 feet long, and totally unlighted. The fact that most
delvers will have to crawl will serve to block torch light from penetrating to the delvers behind
the torch bearers. Every few feet the crawling delvers will scuff their knees on an odd curved
ridge that seems to circle around the tunnel. This ridge is not too high, and seems to occur
at regular intervals. The tomb robber in the lead will be able to see the curving spiral of these
lines leading him off into the distance.

Eventually the leader will find himself at the end of the tube which emerges from a
point high on the side wall of a 30 foot by 30 footroom, with aceiling 12 feet from what seems
to be the floor.

THE TRAP.

From his vantage point on the wall near the ceiling the lead member of tomb trashers
anonymous can see what looks like a featureless room. The walls are white stucco (so what
else is new), while the floor and ceiling also seem to be covered with white stucco as well.

Obviously itisa trap. (Oh my. Whata surprise!) The delvers, cramped and confused
will now go bats trying to figure out just what sort of trap it is.

The “floor” is in fact the top of 18 feet of finely milled flour. If the first delver just
crawls up and jumps out, he will begin to stir upafinecloud of flour dust. Once evenonedelver
is in the chamber stirring about there will be a 30% chance (L3) of the trap being “activated”.

Professor Grimtooth of the University of Extremely Hard Knocks will now deliver
a lecture on explosive clouds of particulate matter. If a sufficent amount of small but even
remotely flameable particles go into suspension in common “room” air and a spark (or the
flame of a torch) is applied the subsequent ignition will result in an explosion of incredible
violence and force! (If you find this hard to believe check out the past history of grain silo,
and similar grain storage explosions. This is also the foundation theory behind Fuel/Air
aerosol explosives.)

The more members in the room thrashing about looking for doors and such will drive

 

DUNGEON
OF:

DOOM

 

Page 59

 
