 

DUNGEON

OF

 

DOOM

Ae
Be

Page 60

up the chance of explosion dramatically. (Add 10% (1L) per additional delver per turn, until
certainly is reached!)

The ignition will eventually occur unless the party is possessed with a familiarity with
the concept of grain explosions and comes up with another method of “seeing”.

The force of the explosion will be deadly for whoever is in the room. If the blast
doesn’t kill the character outright, the lack of Oxygen will. For those still in the tube: The
first delver must endure 400D6 of damage. The next 200D6, the next 100D6, then 50D6,
25D6, 12D6, 6D6, 3D6, and finally 1D6. Any additional delvers are safe, the force having
been expended on each “obstruction” down the line. In addition the force of the blast will
throw the occupants back down the tube, literally firing them like soft bullets out of the end
of the tunnel. If there are few of them, say 2 or 3, the unabated force will throw them out the
end of the tunnel and into the nice soothing quicksand. If they are capable of absorbing the
force of the blast (!) this should give them something to think about!

To make matters worse, to get through this room the party will have to burrow into
the flour! There is a bronze door on the same wall as the tube’s entry hole, the top of which
is about 8 feet down. There is a trap door at the bottom of the far wall, but this is a lot harder
to find, although itcan be detected by magic. In eitherevent there will have to be much digging
and thrashing around, further enhancing the chance of an explosion, or even repeated
explosions. (Trap masters don’t despair there are magical ways of seeing that recommend
themselves. Your victims will come back.)

This is a four skull trap, almost unavoidable even if the delvers are aware of the way
it works, having the exits beneath the level of the flour is the piece-de-resistance. The delvers
are truly doomed! Butalas, they are also persistent, devious, and infinitely crafty, as a result
we must continue on!

Trap #50: “Some How This All Seems Too Easy!”

The bronze door near the entry tunnel is fairly typical of those found so far. Very
fine truely artistic work, its estimated value is 1,200 g.p. in art and construction. On its surface
are depicted the images of a man and a woman. The man is clearly Evinrood (The fact that
he comes up to the woman’s chin reveals the stumpy stature that has come to be associated
with past images found in the tomb.) The woman is tall and lithe, even the image betrays a
fluid grace that transcends the time since the door’s crafting. In the background are some of
the most bizarre creatures seen yet. They look like the deamon dogs found as statuary in
certain eastern temples. They are leaping playfully about the couple’s feet. The couple
depicted are clearly not engaged in combat.

The wheel in the door’s center must be turned for the door to be opened. Once the
party resolves to do so the delver who does the turning will hear a rushing sound, as if a source
of water has been released. The door will take many turns to open and when it does it will
reveal a vaultlike thickness which serves to explain why it was not blown open by the blast.
The door opens into the flour room which could be a problem, but by now the party should
have that troublsome explosion problem under control! Even so the door is unlikely to be
opened all the way. It is after all, at the bottom of 18 feet of flour.

The party will be able to squeeze intoa hall 10 feet wide and 15 tall, that slants slightly
downward. The hall is 40 feet long, and has one additional unique feature. Just inside the
doorway is a grating in the floor out of which is pouring a steady stream of water. It covers
the floor from wall to wall, and runs smoothly down into the room below. The water stream
is only about 2 or 3 inches deep. From the room below is coming a pale blue light.

Thrashing through this rivulet to the entrance of the chamber below the party will be
confronted with a scene of unearthly beauty. The room is 50 by 50 feet square, with a 25 foot
high ceiling. It, like the hall leading into it, is slightly slanted downward away from the
entrance. All along the wall nearest the party is a grating out of which pours more water. This
covers the entire floor with a softly gurgling sheen of water just like the hall. The waterappears
to be drained off at the far wall, but in the dim blue glow the party can’t see the drain gratings.

The walls are tiled in a scintilating blue which seems to give off the pale blue glow.
Opposite the door the party is standing in there is a raised dais. On this dais is a sarcophagus
of the same rare hy-Atlantaen stone seen in the room of the Terra-cotta soldiers. The seemingly

 
