frozen sea wave grain in the stone seems
even more magnetic in the light of the
florescenttiles. Thisis clearly the resting
place of a figure of some importance.

Ateither end of the dais a foun-
tain rises out of the running water, this
coincides with the entrance of the party
into the chamber. This should serve to
unnerve the party a bit. The activator
panel was under the water and thus ren-
dered indistinct. The pleasant sound of
falling water sounds almost musical in
the silence of the tomb!

The Sarcophagus can be opened
with relative ease, and within will be
found the wrapped body of a woman.
The mummy has beenresting undisturbed
in this tomb for millenia as is evidenced
by the fact that none of the artifacts in the
sarcophagus have been disturbed. The
linen wrappings areas freshas if the body
was just placed herein. Magic users will
be expressing great agitation at this point.
The mummy is under a very powerful
spell of preservation. It is the likes of
which they will not have seen.

On the mummy’s hands are 8
rings, each identical, made of the fabu-
lous blue stone of hy-Atlan. These rings
are carved in the shapes of elongated
versions of the same deamon dogs found
on the entrance door. The eyes of the
dogson the ringsare flawless star saphires,
which wink with hidden knowledge.

The magic-using members of
the party will be able to relate that the
spell on the mummy doesn’textend to the
rings which they feel may be removed
without affecting the wrapped figure.

(I’ve kept out of this melodra-
matic little piece of overblown sentimen-
tality up to this point out of respect for the
great Trapmeister that Evinrood was, but
at this point given the vandalistic streak
that most delvers possess, I must intrude.
The spell on the recumbent lady will
ABSOLUTELY thwart the party’s any
and every effort to do damage to her
physical form. Although she can be
moved and searched, she will not come
unwrapped and absolutely no physical
harm can come to her. That is until
Evinrood’s spirit has truly left this plane
of existence (HINT!).

The party will almost certainly
take the rings. From a physical value
standpoint the rings are easily worth

 

 

DUNGEON
—_ OF:

DOOM

Page 61

 
