 

DUNGEON

OF

D oO oO M 2,000 g.p. each (less due to the sudden quantity of hy-Atlantaen stone that will be hitting the
market soon.)

There are magical enhancements on all the rings but the spells are unique and their
purposes are hidden from any magical investigation, save experimentation. It is at this point
thatthe trap aspect of this room begins to emerge. Eight choices, much to gain, and everything
to loose.

The party will find that while the rings fit well on the mummy they seem to be able
to fit the fingers of any member of the party who is looking them over. This is true for the
most dainty female elf or the most hippopotanic oaf of a human warrior. There is one problem,
however, these rings will not fit over armor, or gloves.

The eight rings react as follows.

Twoof these rings when donned summon elemental manifestations knownas “Water
Dogs”. These creatures will'form out of the fountains on either side of the sarcophagus. They
look like animated water in the shape of the oriental temple dogs. The party member will have
absolute control of them. They are the size of Great Danes. They can inflict 25D6 damage.
(Their teeth and claws turn to ice for an instant at the point of inflicting damage.) They take
only 1/2 damage from normal weapons, even enchanted weapons are halved, unless the
enchantment has something to do with fire, heat, or burning, in which case they will take
double the damage.

One of the rings when donned will turn the bearer into one of the Fabled Tsunami
Warriors. The bearer will be able to turn his body into water, this includes his armor, and the
ring. (Just to shock the stuffing out of the party have it happen spontaneously the first time,
then have the character “pull himself back together”. It'll serve to make them less cocky.)
This delver will take damage just as the Water Dog described above does. (A further note,
being reduced to steam is bad, death through dissipation usually results, and the ring will be
lost. Being turned to ice will only slow the delver toa stop. Of course if broken be sure you
gather up ALL the pieces, then wait for the thaw.)

 

 

 

A Waterdog - called forth by one of the rings.

 

 

Page 62

 
