DUNGEON
=O

The other five rings, when removed, activate traps. D O oO M

The first and perhaps simplest is the Ring of Water. When this ring is put on the
magic turns the wearer into water, leaving the ring behind. Oops. Care to try again?

* The second is the Ring of Desiccation. This ring draws all the water out of a delver.
(The mind boggles at the possible effect of these two rings at once!) The delver becomes a
leather covered skeleton in an instant.

A mechanism within the third ring, when withdrawn from the finger of the rightful
bearer, causes a tiny sliver of metal to spring free. This sliver is coated with a powerful
paralytic poison. The delver can only be saved by quick administration ofan antidote. (Hello,
Poison control? I’ve gota fellow here who has a nasty jab of poison from a thousands of year
old mummy’s ring...Hold? What do you mean can I hold?) There is also the possibility of
healing magic. (Armrgh!) j

The forth ring has the same sliver mechanism, but what it administers is a
hallucinogenic drug that slowly induces a heightened paranoiac state. Every two turns there
is a 10% chance that the tomb robber who tries this ring will come to believe that the other
members of the party are “out to gethim” and attack one or all of them. The combat will resolve
itself, In this case a magical anti-toxin spell is most likely to have the most beneficial effect.
Until the delver attacks the other party members there are no overt signs of the oncoming
paranoia. He doesn’t want them to know that he knows!

The fifth ring is totally innocuous. At least to the wearer! The trap here will be
activated if he extends his hand to another. If he takes a grip of any other persons unarmored
hand, or has to grip someones hand to lift them up, a pin will thrust out on the palm side
injecting a dose of the paralyzing poison described above.

These ringsare of variable ratings, from four skulls for the Water or Desiccation rings
to two skulls for the paranoia ring.

Once the rings have been parceled out the party can go on.

 

Be
BE)

E)
E)

 

Trap #51: “The Things You Must Go Through For Loot!”

 

Behind the bier on the wall opposite the entrance there is another three finger hole
door behind the tiles. Pry out the tiles and the door can be opened. The door opens into the
| “Blue” room. and reveals a small chamber 10 by 10 by 10 feet in size. On the opposite side
| isa bronze door. (Remember, most of the rooms are in dead blackness.)

; This door again depicts Evinrood and a beautiful woman. This woman seems to be
possessed of a flashy quickness that seems to leap out of the image. In the background can
be seen a number of indistinct catlike figures lying about or rubbing against the figures legs.

In thecenter of the door isa wheel which must be turned to open the portal. The wheel

will not turn until the door to the “Blue” room is closed. Once this has been done the wheel
will turn freely. The wheel will make several turns, then there will sound a sudden click.
At this point the ceiling will begin to descend into the room.

This will cause almost certain panic. Indestructable items can be used to block the
| descending stone. The party can also attack the three finger hole door with some hope of
success, Keep in mind it is fairly thick (6 inches of stone) and this could take some time.

Once the ceiling reaches a point about 5 feet down from the top the wheel will be
snapped off the bronze door. Steel panels will fall out of the base of the wall. These panels
reveal gratings about 6 inches high along both sides of the room. Atthis point the Water Dogs
and the Tsunami Warrior can quit worrying: there is their refuge. The others havea very short
time to look for an escape.

This room was designed to “wring” the water out of anything entering the next room.
This works very well for other liquids as well, and most delvers will be liquids by the time
the stone reaches the floor one way or another.

In any event the ceiling will withdraw once it has been effectively stopped. Once
the ceiling is back in place the thick steel bolts will be withdrawn and the vault like door will
open. Not that this will matter to the tomb robbers at this point.

This room is hydraulically driven once the wheel is turned, and also hydraulically
raised once it stops. The room is a four skuller if there are none of those cursed indestructible
items amongst the party.

 
