 

DUNGEON

OF
DOOM

 

 

 

Page 64

Trap #52: “You Light Up My Life!”

The room that opens before you is brightly lighted. It is 50 feet by 50 feet by 25, just
like the “Blue” room before it. The walls are covered with reddish-orange tiles that have a
Jambent glow. The floor is perforated with small holes out of which are leaping a waving sea
of small (1/8th. inch high) blue flames, which flicker and reignite when disturbed, rippling
over the floor. At the end of the room there on a bier is a carnelian sarcophagus. At either
end of the bier there are columns of dancing flame 9 feet high. The small flames are cool
enough to be endurable by anyone wearing thick boots. There is a definite danger if dangling
fabrics are present.

This would be an excellent place to comment that perhaps the Water Dog and
Tsunami Warrior members of the party may wish to retreat. They will take 1D6 of damage
for every turn in this room. They may not regenerate from this damage while in the room.
The netresultis that this damage will be cumulative. This effect is the same for those members
of the party who are bare foot, or shod in metal which will conduct the heat.

Acclose inspection of the sarcophagus shows that has no obvious tricks. It will open
with ease to reveal another mummy of a woman, very well preserved and protected exactly
like the one in the “Blue” room. (Another vandalism update: even laying the mummy in the
flames will have no effect, but give the delvers an “A” for effort.)

On this mummy’s fingers are 8 rings in the form of long bodied cat creatures. These
rings are formed of carnelian with rubies for eyes. Their cash value is over 2,500 g.p. As with
the rings in the other room these have a variety of magical spells upon them, and like before
some are good and some bad. Keep in mind all will fit, but not over armor.

First the good. Two of the rings will give control of elemental creatures known as
“Fire Cats”. They are made up of flickering licks of flame. They have faces like giant lynxs
and bodies the size of cougars. They are capable of 30D6 of damage.

The third ring is the fabled Ring of Fire. This ring enables the delver who bears
itto burst into flame. This is hard on cloth garments, and will spoil the temper of a good sword
after a time, but will enable the delver to act as a torch without tying up his hands, Blunt or
untempered weapons are largely unaffected by the flame and in prolonged use will actually
derive some benefit. (Imagine being hit by a red hot mace!) This will add 3D6 to any
unaffected weapon’s hit value. Ifthe delver fights in ignited form hand to handhe will generate
10D6 over his strength value.

The fourth ring is The Ring or The Fire-maker. This ring renders the wearer
immune to fire, flame, or intense heat.

The last four rings are somewhat less salubrious. The fifth ring causes the bearer to
be consumed by the flame (Leaving the ring behind.)

The sixth ring has the backsticking pin coated with a nerve poison that makes the
tombrobber afflicted by itto feel asif his body were on fire. Needless to say this is quite painful
and will stop most delvers from being able to do anything but writhe in pain. Again, only a
magical cure will help. (Maybe.)

The seventh ring injects a hallucinogen that induces a carelessness thatnears the state
of drunken recklessness. The character will have to exert extraordinary will not to leap into
foolish circumstances. There is a 10% chance of the delver who has been jabbed in this fashion
behaving ina grossly irresponsible way. An example being if the party goes back to the flour
room to search for the trap door. They will leave all flaming devices outside and perhaps be
foundering around on the ground. The affected member of the party will say, “We need a
light.”, and thereupon strike a spark to light a torch. For this poor sod logic will be a constant
exercise in will power.

The eighth ring will burst into flame itself, burning off the flesh of the fingeron which
itis placed. This will be intensely painful, and a member of the party with below average
constitution naturally or due to injuries will not survive the shock. The ring cannot be pulled
off, and will continue to burn forever, unless the finger is removed. The good news is that the
rest of the delvers hand is immune to the firey effects.

This ring isa blessing in disguise, for in tomb work it can act asa torch with out tying
upahand. A cautionary note though: don’ thand this fellow any scrolls to read. (For that matter
think of the effect he will have onany bed he tries to sleepin. Talk about the hazards of smoking
in bed!)
