DUNGEON
"TOF:

Again the Rings are skull rated from four to two. D oO Oo M

One last note: While Evinrood was known to consort with both these ladies during
his checkered career, it was never at the same time for what will become obvious reasons.

The lady in the Blue Room was the Sorceress of the Inland Sea. She had control
of a variety of water based creatures, most notable of whom were her Water Dogs which she
would set upon her enemies. It is known that this cool, level-headed lady was the love of
Evinrood’s youth. Her fate has passed into the mysteries of the past, but clearly Evinrood has
taken steps to look after her remains.

The other lady was the so-called Goddess of the Fire Ridge. She may have had
elemental antecedents. She arrived at the same time as a fiery volcano in the lands that
Evinrood knew, bringing with her her wildly unpredictable Fire Cats. This fiery, mercurial
woman was the love of Evinrood’s majority. Her end too is lost in the mists of time, but he
likewise took steps to protect her.

There is a problem that the servants of these two women will pose for the party. Fire
Cats and Water Dogs are basically elementals of two mutually antagonistic types. Under the
command ofan elemental master they can be made to work together. Under the inept guidance
of the delvers the two will rush together in a steam explosion the first time they meet. (A Cat
and Dog explosion will havea force of 55D6, and keep in mind there are two of them. Evinrood
giveth and Grimtooth taketh away!)

 

\y
WK

Trap #53: “Lest You Become Too Complacent Evinrood Pitches A Curve!”

To progress further the party will have to return to the Flour/Explosion room. The
tomb robbers will have to be more thorough in their search. Keep in mind the same kind of
spell that have been revealing the doors hidden behind the stucco can also serve to point the
way to a trap door hidden beneath the flour. This will mean more digging, and if the party
has not learned its lesson more chances to be blown up!

Once the tomb robbers have levered the trap door open they will find it a short 10
foot hop to the floor of a hall leading 20 feet to a blank stucco wall. This hall is 20 feet long,
10 feet wide and 10 feet tall. Along the walls are patterns, twisted geometric forms, worked
in gold leaf. These patterns reveal no images, just random-seeming forms, one after another
| culminating in a final whirlpool of gold on the far wall.

! The value of the gold leaf is nominal. All together there would not be much over
} 50 g.p. It is hammered micro-thin and cemented in place on the stucco. (The party will ask.
| Given a glint of gold their rapacious little hearts will want to scrape it off the very walls!)
The door can be found under the stucco at the end of the hall. As usual this is a three
finger hole door. What is unusual is what happens when the holes are probed. By now the
| delvers will have sunk into a routine when confronted by these type of doors. It will be “we
open the door in the usual manner.” Sticks will be poked, armored fingers inserted, or an
appropriate low level spell cast. If they do this now the fun will really begin.

If the tomb robbers push one button at a time, the results will be as follows. Out of
the ceiling in the first 10 by 10 foot section will emerge a large hydraulically driven steel
framework. This will be driven down to the floor with considerable force. It is in effect like
a giant egg slicer, razor sharp, driven by the force of tons of water pressure! Delvers who are
in this section have a 50% chance (L5) to leap forward and avoid being julienned. Otherwise
only enchanted armor, proof against immense damage, or the redoubtable “indestructible”
item can save them. The mesh and the driving mechanism, four giant pistons concealed in
the corners of the ceiling, will remain extended. The grid is only about a foot thick. Any
delvers caught in it should slump over rather easily, or rather long slender parts of them!

The second button will cause the 10 foot by 10 foot floor section right before the door
to fall out from under the feet of the delvers operating the door opening mechanism. Again
there will be a 50% chance (L5) to leap back. If the delvers fail to do so they will plummet
into what is to all intents and purposes a bottomless pit. Screams should echo up out of it,
magnified by the walls for some time, fading slowly as the distance increases!

The last finger hole pushed will cause another hydraulically driven piston to slam the
door downward from its top on the place where the floor was. This will neatly cover the hole,

 

Page 65
