 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 66

 

and also serve to whack flyswatterlike any flying character who happens to be pressing the
last button. If the floor has fallen away and the delver is flying, there is a 50% chance it can
dive down into the hole and escape, or it may try to fly back into the hall, but there is only a
30% chance (L7) of that. Of course if the floor has not fallen away then, squoosh!

The most dramatic effect can be achieved if a wizard magics the door open or if the
party pushes all three at once! All the traps activate simultaneously, and chances of survival
in this case are very, very dim!

This door and hall trap is a masterpiece, using the delvers complacency about a
deadly device against them, and having the traps come in waves, if they are not maximally
careless. Four skulls, for sure. Watch the delvers scramble.

Trap #54: “If You Think You’ve Got It Made You’re All Wet!”

At this point the party may now enter the room. Itis huge: 130 feet long, and 30 feet
wide. The ceiling is 20 feet overhead and covered with more gold leaf, from end to end. The
gold leaf on the ceiling is worked into fantastic patterns of soaring elemental forms flying and
leaping about, cavorting with an inhuman joy. Covering the floor at the party’s feet are 10
foot by 10 foot tiles of rust colored porcelain, worked throughout with gold wire. These tiles
depict a different type of elementals surging and thrusting in a dance of brutish abandon.

The walls are covered with a bright crimson damask worked with golden threads,
The elementals here are picked out in a rushing, flashing, flickering dance of glee, and
destruction. A truely wonderous sight.

(Sorry to interrupt this epic scene, but loot is loot. The tiles, if pried up, are worth
1,000 g.p. each. If the delvers try to break it up and get at the gold wire they are idiots and
the tiles will be worthless. The damask on the walls will come free if pulled carefully. It is
remarkably well preserved, and worth 50 g.p. a square yard. Again if they try to pluck out
the gold thread they are boobs of the first water and all will be worthless. Lastly the gold leaf
on the ceiling is worth about 3,500 g.p. but will take a great deal of time to remove. Delvers
will ask if they live up to the true vandalistic nature that makes them so much fun to provoke
into acts of self destruction.)

Atthe far end of the room isa raised dais, upon which is an ebon sarcophagus. Behind
it there is a golden statue which illuminates the room with a magical glow. Itis a statue of
a short stumpy man robed as a great wizard. It is cloaked in the signed robe, with the conical
peaked hat. In one hand is a staff of a unique and twisted design. In the statue’s other hand
is a golden orb from which comes the light that illuminates the room. The visage is famil-
iar to the entire party. This is a golden statue of Evinrood the Water Wizard, Master of the
Elementals. (Fanfare! Bells, whistles, let fly the confetti.) The party is in the presence of more
wealth in one place than at any other point in the dungeon. This golden statue is worth well
over 150,000 g.p. Have fun carrying it out!

Tomb robbers being tomb robbers, greed will more than likely compel them to open
the sarcophagus. If, however, they have a sudden burst of good sense and try to take the statue
(which weighs about 5 tons.) the same events will transpire.

If the lid of the sarcophagus is opened, or the statue moved, or broken (which will
cause it to move) the trap will be sprung.

The only elementnotrepresented by the art in this room is water. Ever the completist,
Evinrood’s devices hasten to oblige. The entire room is a gigantic iron box, which when
released swings down at the end with the statue, the sarcophagus, and presumably the entire
party in it. The pivot point is a giant shaft under the floor just beyond the door. The room
will rush through an arc and crash with lethal suddenness into the wall below. In this position
the last 25 feet of the room will swing through the bottom of the lake. At this time the far wall,
which is now the ceiling will collapse under the weight of the lake and the room will fill with
water, the final element.

The impact of the room hitting the wall at the end of its swing, the multi-ton statue
flying around, not to mention the stone dais, and the sarcophagus, the ceiling falling 130 feet
inarain of stony debris, and finally being at the bottom of a 130 foot waterfall, should result
ina satisfying climax. 1 for one have seldom seen more ways to be done in at one time in one

 
