 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Page 68

 

DONE TOO SOON

Trap #55: “Check Your Deamons At The Door!”

Itdoesn’t matter how the party finds its way to this point. It will either be by thenoble,
tortureous route, the party having gone through every other alternative, and then finally
having the significance of the “pirate map” made clear to them. Or it will possibly be after
the crystal warrior/delver polisher, that some architectural genius will come up with an idea.
“Why does a 20 foot corridor lead to two 10 foot doors set at right angles, and leave me facing
a blank wall?”

In either event the party will find that they have to scrape off a substantial amount
of stucco to reveal these doors. When they have they find themselves facing two 10 foot high
10 foot wide bronze doors. On these doors is depicted the final battle of Evinrood’s career.
The confrontation with the lord of the deamons!

On the right hand door can be found the image of a tall, imposing, dead eyed man.
This is Selgolub Lord of the Deamons. About him are the twisted visiages of halfhuman
nightmare things, vile charactures of things that might have been created in an evil dream.
They are directed at the figures on the left hand door in magical onslaught.

On the left hand door is the
depiction of a stumpy, harried fig-
ure, arms upraised, marshaling his
forces. This can be recognized from
other doors like this throughout the
tomb as the image of Evinrood Lord
of the Elementals. All about him are
the humanoid shapes of pure energy
that represent the elementals. This
strange force when compared to the
things on the right hand door seem
pure, and somehow pathetic!

But enough of this maudlin
drivel. The art tour will be through
after the tomb robbers have taken all
the good stuff. These doors both
havethree fingerholesinthem. (That
makes 6 altogether for those war-
riors in the party.) Those in the right
hand door have an aura of magic
about them. This will prompt the
party to try the ones on the left. Too
bad, as in thatcase all three will work
as digit dicers, and the door still will not open. (No these doors will not respond to the low
level magic opening spell of all the others.) To open the left hand door the party must first
try the right hand holes!

This is the real trap and regretably it only works on deamons, elementals, creatures
who owe their existence to magic alone, (like Tsunami warriors, and Elemental men.) or
beings consisting of magical force. If any of this limited fraternity insert anything into these
holes they will be slowly, and messily, sucked into the finger holes. Keep track of the beings
thus affected’s physical Strength, and Intelligence, it will be potentially relevent later on. If
normal mortals, or nonmagically sustained creatures stick digits in, they will feel acold chill.
This is except for any elvish delvers: they will feel an electric shock, mild unfortunately, but
startling. (It'sa little trick of my ownadded for laughs, tozap a few of the high browed, pointy-
eared wood rats.)

After the party has tried the right hand door the left hand door will work in the usual
manner. The huge doors will open, revealing a chamber.

The door is a four skull trap for those types of beings affected; all others will only
be affected by the left not working until the right does, one skull at best.

WaT

 
