Trap #56: “The fabled “Earthly Reason” At Work.”

The room beyond the doors is a 20 foot cube, one wall of which consists of the doors
the party has just opened. On araised platform near the back wall isa throne three times human
size. Behind the throne is an inscription inlaid in gold, on the wall.

“No souls escape the place beyond the seat of Earthly wisdom!”

There are no detectable exits from this room. There are no magical auras to be found
in the room either. In short it is just the party and the chair. (Comments about the relative
intelligence of either are welcome.)

Clearly some one must sit in the chair, although any suitable weight will do. (Oh,
some parties will think of the “throw a backpack on the chair” trick, but most won’t.)

Once the throne hasreceived weight in any volume above 20Ibs. the trap will activate.
The throne, and the stairs are mounted on a pivot. The whole ensemble will flip over through
180 degrees. This will have two effects, first anyone on the stairs or the throne will be dumped
into an identical room below this one. The damage potential of a fall of 20 feet for a delver
who has reached this pointis negligible, but there is always the possibility that someone could
break his fool neck. Say, 10% chance (L1).

The second effect is to bring up an identical throne upon which is seated a humanoid
figure of superhuman proportions. This figure is magical in nature, and looks like a slab of
rocky mud. On the creature’s lap is a sword with a rust coloured blade. In its pommel is a
dull amber stone. When the floor locks back in place the Earth Elemental will rise, taking up
the sword and attack the party. The elemental will have the combined Strength, and
Constitution/Endurance of all the warriors of the party. His great sword will recieve SO0D6
in combat, and will have an effect on any magical creature, just like it would on a normal
mortal! [A note to all wizards, the stone in the pommel notonly renders the elemental immune
to magical attack, but casts a counter spell trapping the wizard who cast the spell. This trap
will consist of a pentagram etched in magic fire on the floor of the room, and will last only
three turns.]

If the party flees the room the Earth Elemental will return to the throne and sit down
to await their return,

If the party defeats the elemental a section of the wall behind the throne 20 feet wide
will sink slowly into the ground.

The blade will remain but in the hands of a normal delver it will be only a 18D6
weapon. The gem in the pommel will still be magical in nature, but it will only ward off direct
magical attack, not trap the spell caster.

‘The trap is not lethal unless those who are on the stairs or throne cannot think of a
way out of the room under the throne. I suppose they could starve to death. But this is only
a one skull trap, of course the golem is quite another thing, but he is a trap only for wizards,
and in that he does them no harm.

Trap #57: “Never Touch A High Level Wizards “Stuff!”

Before the party presses on the wizards in the group will go amuk, issuing a stern
warning. Here there be HIGH LEVEL MAGIC. Itis in the rock of the entrance that sank into
the ground, and in the walls, floor and ceiling. All these areas for a depth of 10 feet are
interpenetrated with a magic spell. The level of this spell and its nature are impossible to
discern, (Although the gold lettering behind the throne might provide a clue, hint, hint.) The
party Will also notice that the rock is clad with dwarvish steel on the side that faces into the
chamber.

Easily in the party’s sight with light reflected off the polished steel walls is achamber.
Itisa40 foot cube of shining steel, in the center of which is a pyramid of 3 steps, the total over
5 feet high. The base of the pyramid is 20 feet on a side and setin the exact center of the room.

At the apex of the monument is a cube of the blue hy-Atlantaen stone. Thrust into
this stone is a gnarled old wooden seeming staff. Three guesses who this handy item once
belonged to.

Eventually someone is going to want this handy little tool badly enough to try to pull

DUNGEON
——— OF

DOOM

 

     
     

HEY! No
ONE SHOULD BE
THIS FAR! THEY 1

SHOULD BE DEAD!

 

 

 

Page 69
