 

DUNGEON
OF

DOOM

 

Appendix

 

Catalyst products are an attempt to provide a
playing aid that can be used with any game system. Natu-
rally, since there are so many different systems available
today, it is impossible to cover them all. The numbers we
have given you in the text are there primarily to give you
some guidance as you create the specific numbers that will
be needed for your game system. In order to help, I have
asked some friends to come up with some sample numbers
for acouple popular game systems. The AD&D numbers are
James L Walker’s interpretation of how this adventure
would be played under AD&D. The Warhammer numbers
are likewise from Claude Watrous III. Since an old family
painting of me decorates the cover of the T&T rules, I have
provided the Tunnels & Trolls numbers. We have not been
adding these numbers to previous “Catalyst” products, and
all three of us would appreciate your comments. “AD&D”
and “Monstrous Compendium I and II” are trademarks of
TSR Inc.; and “Warhammer” and “Warhammer Bestiary”
are trademarks of Games Workshop, are used without
permission, and are not intended to challenge anyones
trademark rights or copyrights. These are merely samples
of how you might use this adventure with those products.
“T&T”, “Tunnels & Trolls”, “Catalyst” , and “Grimtooth”
are trademarks of Flying Buffalo Inc.

- - - Grimtooth.

Advanced Dungeons and Dragons
Page 10: Anti-Detection Magic

Detection spells within the area of the Coffin have been
masked by a powerful 9th level proprietary spell of one of
the Wizards in Grimtooth’s employ. This spell is in many
ways very similar to the 8th level illusion spell ‘Screen’,
except that it only effects spells of Detection and Divination.
There is no saving roll to avoid the effects of this spell. The
illusion of Non-detection may only be broken by a dispel
magic of the proper level, a wish spell, or certain powers of
more powerful artifacts.

Page 12: Air Elementals
Treat as 8 hit die Air Elementals, as found in the Monstrous
Compendium I.

Page 15: Giant Crossbows

Each crossbow will cause 6-15 (3d4+3) when used as a
missile weapon. As a trap, the damage is double (12-30 or
6d4+6). It will require giant’s strength to cock the crossbow,
at least a strength of 18, and a minimum of a 17 strength to
aim, even with the help of an aiming stand.

Page 17: Fire Elementals
The death of this Fire Elemental results in a ball of steam
Page 74

that will cause damage equal to its hitdice; 8d6. Saving roll
vs Dragon’s Breath will negate 1/2 of this damage.

Page 20: SR on Luck or Speed
The Delver will have a 30% chance of survival, +5% per
point of Dexterity over 15.

Page 24: Pack Piranha
Statistics, as would be found in the Monstrous Compen-
dium if piranha were listed:

Climate/Terrain Fresh Water

Frequency Uncommon

Organization Swarm

Activity Cycle Any time

Diet Carnivore

Intelligence Nil

Treasure Nil

Alignment Nil

Number Appearing 10-100

Armor Class 6 (8 if the defender is able to negate
the effects of water drag).

Movement 24 swim

Hit Dice 1-2 hit points each

THACo 19

Number of Attacks 1

Damage/Attack 1 hit point

Special Defense Nil

Magic Resistance Nil

Size Small — 3 to 5 inches long
Morale Average

X-P value 25 each

Habits As described in text of the Dungeon of Doom

Page 24: Albino Cave Sharks
These monsters are in all ways the same as the common
sharks, found in the Monstrous Compendium II.

Page 24: Electro - Squids

Statistics, as would be found in the Monstrous Compen-
dium if Electro - Squids were listed:

Climate/Terrain Any salt water
Frequency Rare
Organization Schools
Activity Cycle Any

Diet Carnivore
Intelligence Nil

Treasure Nil
Alignment Nil
