 

Number Appearing 5 to20

Armor Class 8

Movement 12 swim, 36 jet

Hit Dice 1

THACo 19

Number of Attacks 1

Damage/Attack Special

Special Attacks Electric Shock causing 2d8 stun

damage. The target will recover from this damage swiftly
unless they drown orare eaten by the Squids. Once the target
isstunned into helplessness, the squids will devour itin about
1 hour. Most delvers will drown long before this time,
however.

Special Defense Nil

Magic Resistance Nil

Size Small

Morale Unsteady (7)

X-P value 65 each

Habits As described in text of the Dungeon of Doom

Page 25: Blind Barracuda

These creatures are not particularly handicapped by their
blindness, as they can detect motion in the water very
accurately. Treat as normal Barracuda as found in the
Monstrous Compendium II.

Page 25: Giant Crystal Sea Snakes

As per the information found in the Monstrous Compen-
dium I under Snakes, Poisonous. The toxin generated by
these snakes is the maximum poison found on the chart. Of
course, since these snakes are aquatic, they have some
similarity to Giant Sea Snakes. Use that statistic list where
it would be appropriate.

Page 28: Dwarven Pila

Extra fine Dwarven workmanship allows these pila (sing.
Pilum, short, flexible Spears), to cause 1d6+1 in damage vs
man sized targets, and 1d8+1 damage vs giant sized targets.
Further, they will be worth 10 times the normal value of a
spear in gold.

Page 29: Giant Albino Squid
As per the information found in the Monstrous Compen-
dium II under Squid, Giant.

Page 33: Giant Glass Catfish
As per the information found in the Monstrous Compen-
dium II under Fish, Giant. 10 hit dice.

Page 33,34: The Cat’s Staff

This item is a powerful artifact level staff. It will instantly
drain all of the experience levels of anyone who touches it,
takes it up, or otherwise seeks to possess it by spell, physical
action, or remote grasping or clamping object, rendering the
victim a first level character once again.

DUNGEON
ok

DOOM

This draining of energy charges the staff’s magic powers,
and attunes the staff to this person. The magic powers thus
attained are a powerful transformation ability, giving the
victim the same attack capabilities as a Weretiger 1 time per
day, fora maximum of | hour, and great magical knowledge,
such that whenever the holder attains a new level of spell
expertise, he will instantly be taught all of the spells that he
is entitled to at the new level of experience. This holds true
for magic users only. Clerics will be unable to make use of
the staff. After draining them of experience, the staff will
simply go dormant until a wizard takes it up.

On the down side, the staff does house a powerful Cat
Demon, who will demand that the user donate large amounts
of his earnings to various cat charities: Temple of Bast,
Retirement home for Priests of Bast, Lost Cat Shelters, etc.,
at least 50%. Further, other Artifact level disadvantages
may surface from time to time. Usually when the player least
expects or wants it.

 

Page 36: Darts
These darts will cause 1d6+3 points of damage as a trap.
Ifused as a hand weapon, they do same damage as a javelin.

Page 40: Armor

This armor is really a monster in disguise. For all intents
and purposes, treat this armor as if it were a Zodar, from the
Monstrous Compendium Spell jammer Appendix. The Zodar
will fight with either it’s natural weaponry and abilities, or
the weapons of the person or persons it has possessed. If
more than one member of the party is possessed, divide the
hit points of the Zodar evenly between them, and reduce the
THACoby | foreach victim. Remember, this is nota Zodar,
but a suit of armor which fights like a Zodar. Experience
value for defeating the armor should be awardedas ifa single
Zodar were killed, no matter how many members of the party
were possessed. Defeating the Zodar will render the armor
inert, of no value. Remember, in AD&D, armor does not
negate damage. It will always have the AC of the Zodar,
until itis defeated, and rendered inert, at which point, it will
be normal armor of it’s type.

Page 44: Killer Bees

Treat as a Swarm with 10-100 hit points, +10 hit points per
statue broken. Bees will cause 3d6 hit points of damage to
each person in the room every round they remain in the room,
Foreach 1/3 of the bees killed, reduce the damage they cause
by 1d6. For every 18 hit points of damage a character takes,
there isa 10% chance of an allergic reaction which will result
in death in 10 to 20 turns unless treatment is administered by
a Cleric with a neutralize poison spell.

Page 53: 10 foot spears
These fine Dwarven forged spears will cause 1d8+1
damage to man-sized targets and 1d10+1 to larger than man
sized creatures when used in melee combat. The value in
gold of the spears will be 10 times the normal value of spears.
Page 75
