1
A DARK AND
STORMY KNIGHT
A Short Adventure for Four 
1st-Level Player Characters
CREDITS
Design: Owen K.C. Stephens
Editing: Penny Williams
Typesetting: Nancy Walker
Cartography: Nick Isaac
W eb Production Julia Martin
W eb Development: Mark A. Jindra
Graphic Design: Sean Glenn, Cynthia Fliege
Based on the original D UNGEONS & D RAGONS ® game by E.
Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson and on the new edition of the
D
UNGEONS & D RAGONS game designed by Jonathan Tweet,
Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Rich Baker, and Peter Adkison.
D&D, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, and D UNGEON MASTER are registered trademarks owned
by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. The d20 logo is a trademark owned by Wizards of the
Coast, Inc. All Wizards characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses
thereof are trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United
States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the
material or artwork contained herein is prohibited 
without the express written permission of 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
©2005 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc.
All rights reserved. 
Made in the U.S.A. 
This product is a work of fiction. 
Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, 
or events is purely coincidental.
This Wizards of the Coast game product contains no Open Game Content. 
No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without 
written permission. To learn more about the Open Gaming License 
and the d20 System License, 
please visit www
.wizards.com/d20.
For more DUNGEONS & DRAGONS articles, adventures, and information, 
visit www.wizards.com/dnd
The unusually violent storms in these parts often drive
motley collections of intelligent beings to take shelter
together for a time. The tradition of storm-peace
ensures that all grudges are suspended for the duration
of the storm. But some shelters are safer than others,
and not all beings honor the storm-peace. Can the PCs
solve the mystery of the tor in which they have taken
shelter before the storm ends?
A Dark and Stormy Knight is a short adventure for
four 1st-level characters. The scenario is set in a barren
wilderness area that features one or more tors, or free-
standing hills. The action takes place inside one of
these tors that has been hollowed out and used as a
tomb in the past. As always, feel free to adapt the mate-
rial presented here as you see fit to make it work with
your campaign.
PREPARATION
You (the DM) need the D&D core rulebooks—the
Player’s Handbook, the Dungeon Master’s Guide, and the
Monster Manual—to run this adventure. The scenario
utilizes the D&D v.3.5 rules.
To get started, print out the adventure, including the
map. Read through the scenario at least once to famil-
iarize yourself with the situation, threats, and major
NPCs in the tower (particularly their motivations).
Text that appears in shaded boxes is player informa-
tion that you can read aloud or paraphrase for the
players at the proper times.
ADVENTURE
BACKGROUND
Long ago, a small but mighty humanoid kingdom
existed in what is now the local wilderness. Bugbear
and ogre warriors fought brutal wars of expansion,
earning great fame and amassing considerable fortunes
from their predations. Those who died in battle were
buried in large tomb complexes dug into hillsides and
honored as patrons of the living. Among these tombs
was the large tor known as Hightower. Though it was
neither the largest nor the most famous of the king-
dom’s tombs, Hightower did represent a typical
example of this kind of structure.
As happens to all such nations, the cruel
humanoid kingdom eventually fell to a more
powerful foe that razed all its cities and outlying
fortifications. Of the tombs, only Hightower
escaped destruction—largely because it was an
unimportant monument in a remote location. 
