3
BEGINNING THE 
ADVENTURE
A Dark and Stormy Knight is primarily a site-based
adventure, though it begins with a storm of legendary
proportions. Once the PCs seek shelter in Hightower,
the action continues there.
THE STORM
The adventure can begin at any time of day. Read or
paraphrase the following when the storm hits.
Any character who makes a successful DC 10 bardic
knowledge check or DC 15 Knowledge (architecture
and engineering, dungeoneering, local, history, or
nobility and royalty) check can identify this tor as
Hightower and recall its history as given in the
Adventure Background. 
If PCs balk at heading for the tor, bring the weather
rules (see page 93 in the Dungeon Master’s Guide) into
play. Once the hail gets bad enough to deal lethal
damage, the characters may become more willing to
run for cover.
HIGHTOWER
The following sections describe the tor and the tombs
within. Unless otherwise noted, all areas are unlit, and
the walls, floors, and ceilings are made of worked
stone.
1. HIGHTOWER MAIN ENTRANCE
Read or paraphrase the following when the PCs come
within 20 feet of Hightower.
Any character who makes a DC 12 Search or
Knowledge (architecture and engineering) check can
determine that the stonework of the doorway and the
surrounding area is indeed very strong. A dwarf can
determine the same information via stonecunning. 
A DC 15 Spot check reveals the broken remains 
of an immense, round stone scattered across the
ground near the entrance. This stone once blocked
the doorway, but it was blasted apart by lightning
some weeks ago.
The door is heavy but well counterweighted. It is
unlocked and opens easily, and it swings shut of its
own accord unless propped open.
2. HIGHTOWER MAIN HALL
Read or paraphrase the following once the PCs have
entered Hightower.
Each of the three doors is locked, and the DC for the
required Open Lock check is high enough to be
beyond the capabilities of even a talented 1st-level
character. If the PCs arrive at different times, let them
all get to this point before moving on to encounter 3.
If they seem interested in talking, let them introduce
themselves and perhaps set up camp in this chamber.
Proceed to encounter 3 when they are ready to go on.
ss Doors: 4 in. thick, hardness 8, hp 60, break DC
28, Open Lock 30.
The stone chamber beyond the entrance meas-
ures at least ten paces square. Peeling paint and
broken scrollwork suggest that it was once deco-
rated with some care, but now only dust remains.
Three massive stone doors—one each to the left
and right, and one directly across from the
entrance—lead deeper into the tor.
The massive tor towers above the surrounding
country. A few narrow ledges offer scant protec-
tion from the elements, but a closer inspection
reveals a massive, arched entryway at least 20 feet
tall and 10 feet wide, set into the side of the hill.
The ground just outside it slopes away from the
doorway, directing the falling water out and
away. Given this fact and the sturdy nature of the
hill, whatever space lies beyond the door should
be both dry and safe from lightning and hail. The
construction seems quite sturdy, so the likeli-
hood of collapse, even in severe conditions such
as these, is remote.
The sky has been slowly darkening all day, and
the smell of rain has been thick in the air. Now it
has finally begun to fall, accompanied by loud
peals of thunder that seem to roll across the land-
scape. The sun is hidden behind massive storm-
clouds, and a cold wind blows from the north. As
bolts of lightning begin to slam from cloud to
ground and pieces of hail begin to strike the
earth, the need for shelter becomes obvious.
Ahead in the distance, a large tor rises from the
ground, its form illuminated by the occasional
lightning bolt. It seems rocky and solid, and
though climbing it in this weather would be
folly, it might have some outcropping that would
provide safety from the storm. The only alterna-
tive is to endure the weather.