5
3. RAT RACE (EL 2)
This encounter is not noted on the map. It occurs in
area 2 at a time of the DM’s choosing, sometime after
all the PCs have arrived there.
A bolt of lightning has opened a crevice in the next
room, flooding a rat nest there.
Creatures: Eight rats swarm into the chamber,
seeking a way out.
DD Rats (8): hp 2, 2, 2, 2, 1, 1, 1, 1; see Monster
Manual, page 278.
Tactics: Panicked by the thunder and the flooding
of their nest, the rats attack the nearest targets they
see, though no more than three pile onto any one
target. Even though a rat can deal only 1d3–4 points of
damage with its bite, each such attack still deals a
minimum of 1 point. If a rat is injured but not killed, it
flees on its next move action.
Treasure: This chamber contains no treasure. The
gp value of the treasure for this encounter has been
spread around to other areas inside the tor.
4. PREPARATION CHAMBER (EL 1)
Read or paraphrase the following aloud when the PCs
enter this area.
The rope does indeed lead up to the top of the tor.
Climbing it requires a DC 15 Climb check. Inspection
of the area surrounding the shaft’s upper opening,
however, reveals only the wrecked remains of a
hobgoblin camp. The shaft was dug out by tomb
robbers long ago to provide easy access to the riches
within the tor.
Creatures: The two hobgoblins have no intention
of honoring the storm-peace. They intend to establish
a brigand camp here, and witnesses to their arrival
cannot be allowed to live. 
DD Hobgoblin Raiders (2):Male hobgoblin
warrior 1; CR 1/2; Medium humanoid (goblinoid); HD
1d8+2; hp 6, 7; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; AC 15, touch 11, flat-
footed 14; Base Atk +1; Grp +2; Atk or Full Atk +2 melee
(1d6+1/19–20, short sword) or +2 ranged (1d6+1,
javelin); SQ darkvision 60 ft.; AL CE; SV Fort +4, Ref +1,
Will –1; Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8.  
Skills and Feats: Hide +1, Listen +2, Move Silently +3,
Spot +2; Alertness.
Possessions: Studded leather armor, light shield, short
sword, javelin.
Tactics:The hobgoblins simply charge into
combat, attacking the biggest and most threatening
targets first.
Treasure: One of the hobgoblins has a lifting belt
(see Appendix).
5. WHAT A TANGLED WEB (EL 1)
Read or paraphrase the following when the PCs enter
the corridor leading up to this room.
The real encounter here is not the room at the end of
the hall, but the short hallway itself. The door to the
room has long since rotted off its hinges, and the 
doorway is now covered by the web of a Medium
monstrous spider. Any character walking toward the
At the end of this hallway is a small chamber
whose wooden door lies on the floor. The smell of
dust pervades the air, and the sound of thunder is
muted here. Numerous body-shaped lumps are
visible through the doorway, each wrapped care-
fully in layers of grey thread like woven mummies.
Suddenly, from a doorway on the far side of
the room step two burly humanoids. Each stands
more than 6 feet tall and has feral eyes and flat
facial features. With a roar, the two draw their
weapons and charge.
The long stone hall ends in a stone chamber
furnished only with cracked, moldering tables on
which lie rusted implements of iron. Rain falls
into the middle of the room from a shaft in the
ceiling that must run all the way to the top of the
tor. From the bottom of the shaft dangles a rope,
swinging slightly. A drain in the center of the
floor allows the water to escape, but old, dark
stains suggest that it was used to carry away other
fluids long ago.
The sound of hissing rain, pounding hail, and
howling wind from outside is interrupted only by
the occasional loud crack of thunder. Still, this
room seems stable enough for the most part.
Even when the thunder seems to shake the very
ground, not so much as a mote of dust filters
down from the ceiling. The doors leading into
the tor, however, do show signs of weakness,
seeming to tremble with every thunderclap.
Suddenly, in conjunction with a particularly
loud thunderclap, all three doors break open at
once, falling from their doorways into the room
with a great cacophony. Seconds later, the sounds
of squeaking fill the air as a pack of rats swarms
in from the largest doorway.