6
doorway can make a DC 20 Spot check to notice the
nearly invisible silk before walking into it. Any charac-
ter who touches the web is caught as if in a net (see
Player’s Handbook, page 119), except that he is also
unable to move from the doorway. The web can be
destroyed by blows from weapons, though any weapon
that comes in contact with it also sticks to its strands
(DC 16 Str check to free a weapon). Only one creature
can be stuck in the web at a time.
ss W eb: DR 5/—, hp 6, break DC 16, Escape
Artist DC 12. 
Creature: The spider that wove the web is hiding
on the ceiling, which is also covered with nearly-invis-
ible webbing. It gains a circumstance bonus on Hide
and Move Silently checks because of the webbing.
DD Medium Monstrous Spider: hp 11; Hide
+15, Move Silently +11; see Monster Manual, page 288.
Tactics:The spider attacks (with surprise, if
possible) as soon as a character gets stuck in or attacks
the web in the doorway. It always attacks the nearest
target, making no effort to avoid flanking maneuvers or
eliminate more effective foes first. Since the spider is a
web-spinner, it can throw webbing at targets, but it does
so only if no character is currently entangled in a web.
Development: Once the spider has been
dispatched and its webs rendered harmless, the charac-
ters can proceed into the room. The lumps in the
chamber are the dead, mummified bodies of literally
hundreds of rats, plus various humanoids.
Treasure: Hidden among the mummified corpses
within the room are numerous rusted weapons and
tattered clothes, all of which are worthless. On the
floor, however, lies a 0-level pearl of power (see
Appendix) and a bag that contains 75 gp. A DC 10
Search check is needed to find either of these items.
6. THE OFFERING CHEST (EL 1)
Read or paraphrase the following when the PCs enter
this chamber.
The stone chest is built into the floor and cannot be
removed. 
ss Chest: 4 in. thick stone walls, hardness 10, hp
60, break DC 28.
Trap: The lid of the chest is unlocked, but it is
connected to a trap that fires a fusillade of darts at
everyone in the same 5-foot square as the chest and
in every square adjacent to it or sharing a corner with
it. A character must be in the same square as the
chest to open it unless she declares that she’s opening
it with a weapon or pole. Attacking the chest also sets
off the trap.
aa Fusillade of Darts Trap: CR 1; mechanical,
touch trigger (attached); manual reset; Atk +10
ranged (1d4+1, dart); multiple targets (fires one dart
at every target in a 5-ft. square adjacent to the chest);
Search DC 20; Disable Device DC 20; Market Price:
1,000 gp.
Treasure: The chest contains the headband of the
stout heart (see Appendix), two pearls (worth 100 gp
each), and a small bag containing 100 gp.
7. GETTING AHEAD (EL 1)
Read or paraphrase the following when the PCs enter
this chamber.
This chamber is the lair of a lesser vargouille that has
hollowed out the head area of the sarcophagus lid to
make itself a cozy nest.
Creature: The lesser vargouille is a very minor evil
outsider.
DD Lesser V argouille:CR 1; Small outsider (evil,
extraplanar); HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Init +1; Spd fly 30 ft.
(good); AC 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11; Base Atk +1;
Grp 3; Atk or Full Atk +3 melee (1d4, bite); SA shriek;
SQ darkvision 60 ft., outsider traits; AL NE; SV 
Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +3; Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, 
Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 8.  
Skills and Feats: Hide +9, Intimidate +3, Listen +5,
Move Silently +5, Spot +5; Weapon Finesse.
Shriek (Su): Instead of biting, a lesser vargouille
can open its distended mouth and let out a terrible
shriek. Each creature within 60 feet (except other
vargouilles) who hear the shriek and can clearly see
the creature must succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude save
or be paralyzed with fear for 2d4 rounds or until the
monster attacks them, goes out of range, or leaves
their sight. A creature that successfully saves cannot
The only object of interest in this chamber is a
statue at the far end. It resembles a sarcophagus
standing upright, except that the head of the
figure carved upon its lid looks distorted and
seems to have tendrils instead of hair. A pair of
batlike wings extends from its temples. Suddenly,
its eyes open, revealing the glow of green flames,
and the head flies forward to attack!
This room is empty save for dust and a single,
small, stone chest in the center of the floor.
Evidently no one has disturbed this chamber for
many years.