7
be affected again by the same lesser vargouille’s
shriek for 24 hours. The shriek is a mind-affecting
fear effect.
Outsider Traits: A lesser vargouille cannot be
raised or resurrected (though a wish or miracle spell can
restore life).
Tactics: The lesser vargouille screams during the
first round of combat, then attacks the nearest foe still
standing. If all the PCs are paralyzed, it moves and
attacks each of them once, then repeats the process. As
soon as someone recovers, the lesser vargouille
concentrates its attacks on that character.
Treasure: Within the now-headless sarcophagus is
a pile of dust and a translator’s ring (see Appendix).
8. THE DARK KNIGHT (EL 2)
Read or paraphrase the following when the characters
enter this chamber.
DD The Dark Knight: Male bugbear zombie, 42 hp;
see Monster Manual, page 267.
Possessions: Light wooden shield, morningstar,
javelin, masterwork weapon*.
Tactics: On the first round of combat, the dark
knight throws his javelin, even though that action
doesn’t make much sense tactically. After that, he
charges to melee range and attacks the most obvious
foe each round thereafter. Usually he chooses
whichever PC dealt him the most damage in melee
during the previous round.
If the Dark Knight is disarmed or his weapon is
sundered, he switches to his secondary weapon, which
is slung on his back.
Treasure: The morningstar that the Dark Knight
is using is cracked and nearly worthless, and his other
gear (including armor) is in no better condition. *But
he does have a secondary weapon—a masterwork
weapon of a type used by one or more of the PCs. (You
can choose a weapon for a combat-based character who
doesn’t already have a masterwork weapon, or you can
determine randomly which of the PCs’ weapons the
dark knight carries.) This weapon is worth 300 gp plus
its base cost.
Also within the chamber are 250 gp, scattered about
loose on the floor.
CONCLUDING THE
ADVENTURE
The adventure is over when the Dark Knight has been
defeated and all the other monsters have been cleared
out of the tor. Once those conditions have been met,
the storm outside lessens and gradually blows itself out.
FURTHER ADVENTURES
The tribe of bugbears that sent out the two warriors
encountered in area 4 is still interested in turning the
tor into a base of operations. More bugbears arrive
within the next few days, carrying supplies and tools
with which they intend to alter the interior to suit
their purposes. If the bugbears are not stopped, they
establish a base within 2 weeks and begin raiding the
surrounding countryside.
Furthermore, once the bugbears discover that their
honored ancestor, the Dark Knight, has been slain by
the PCs, they send occasional parties of warriors after
them to seek revenge. Up to three of these parties are
sent out before the tribe gives up its quest for
vengeance.
APPENDIX: 
NEW MAGIC ITEMS
This adventure features a few very minor new magic
items. Each is described fully in this section.
Translator’ s Ring:This ring grants the wearer
the ability to understand two specific languages in
addition to those she already knows. If the character
wearing the ring is literate, she also gains literacy in
the new languages as long as she wears the ring.
For the purpose of this adventure, the ring offers
access to two languages that none of the PCs speak,
but that might prove useful in future adventures.
Appropriate choices include Abyssal, Aquan, Auran,
Draconic, Dwarven, Giant, Goblin, Ignan, Infernal,
Orc, and Terran.
Faint divination; CL 1st; Forge Ring, comprehend
languages; Price: 400 gp.
Headband of the Stout Heart:This simple
leather headband is studded with small iron rivets. It
grants its wearer a +1 resistance bonus on all Will saves.
A long, stone table dominates the center of this
chamber, and bright bits of gold wink from
within the dust that covers the floor. Upon the
table lies the well-preserved corpse of a tall
humanoid wearing the tabard and belts of a
knight. Suddenly, the corpse sits up, lifting an
old, rusted morningstar in one hand and a javelin
in the other. As it climbs off the table, its mouth
opens to loose an eerie moan.