  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

  
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 

Introduction

When you play a character in a Dunceons & Daacons®
game, it's all about the choices you make. Every facet of your
character that makes him or her unique is the product of a
conscious decision on your part.

Player's Handbook Lis all about expanding your choices—
sometimes in ways you might expect (new classes, new feats)
and other times in ways you might find surprising, such as a
set of rules for re-engineering your character (about which
we have more to say below).

Chapter 1: New Classes expands the roster of standard
classes by four, with the addition of the beguiler, the dragon
shaman, the duskblade, and the knight. Any of these classes
would be a fine choice if you want to play a character that
doesn't fit any of the archetypes that are represented by the
other classes we have published.

Chapter 2: Alternate Class Options revisits eighteen of
those other classes—the eleven from the Player's Handbook
as well as seven others (such as the scout and the favored
soul) that made their debuts in supplements. We look at
these classes with a fresh set of eyes, providing for each one
an alternate class feature, three new starting packages, and
a discussion of character themes that are appropriate for the
class in question. If you're intrigued by the idea of playing
cleric who spontaneously casts domain spells instead of cure
spells, check out page 37 for the particulars,

Player's Handbook I would not be a book worthy of its title if
itdidn't present new feats and spells. Chapter 3; New Feats
contains more than 100 additions to the vast selection of feats
in the D&D® game, and Chapter 4: New Spells presents a
similar number of new choices for spellcasters of all sorts.

This book starts to blaze its own trailin Chapter 5: Building
Your Identity, which contains dozens of brief discussions
on how to add more depth and realism to your character's
background and personality, plus some advice on how best
to fulfill your role as a player at the gaming table.

Chapter 6: The Adventuring Group takes a step back
in perspective, focusing on the characters who collectively

 

 

 

make up a particular kind of party. How did these would-
be heroes come together in the first place, and what part
does each one of them play in a well-rounded group of

  

adventurers? The chapter also includes a few new teamwork
benefits, expanding on a concept that was introduced in
Dungeon Master’s Guide II

haracters are defined not only by who they are as indi-
viduals and by the other PCs they travel with, but also by the
relationships they form with likeminded individuals whose
heritage or interests compel them to follow a common cause.
Chapter 7: Affiliations describes a new kind of group that
characters can belong to—they rise or fall in status within
their affiliations according to their deeds and their qualifi-
cations, and the most motivated and successful of them all
can even advance to a leadership position. In addition to a
number of fully fleshed-out example affiliations, this chapter
provides guidelines for players and DMs who want to create
affiliations that are unique to their campaign.

Perhaps the most intriguing new concept in this book is
presented in Chapter 8: Rebuilding Your Character. While
many DMs and players have created house rules for handling
situations involving the reselection of feats, reallocation of skill
ranks, altering ability scores, and so forth, the D&D game has
never before had official rules on the topic of revising your entire
character. So whether your dwarf fighter just regrets a single
bad feat choice or wishes he were actually a halfore barbarian
or an elf sorcerer, Chapter 8 offers rules and advice that covers
the subject of character rebuilding from start to finish.

Finally, an extensive Appendix sets forth an efficient
method for quick generation of new player characters or
NPCs, which (among other things) streamlines the process of
selecting skills and feats, The next time you need a character
in a hurry—or even if you don't—check out this system.

 

 

 

 

  

Player’s Handbook 11 makes use of the information in the three
D&D core rulebooks: Player's Handbook (PH), Dungeon Master's
Guide (DMG), and Monster Manual (MM), [ralso includes material
tharexpands upon some of the content of several supplements,
including Complete Warrior, Complete Divine, Complete Arcane,
Complete Adventurer, and Miniatures Handbook, Although pos-
session of any or all of these supplements will enhance your
enjoymentof this book, they are not strictly necessary for you
to make use of the vast majority of this book.

 

 

  

 

SWIFT AND IMMEDIATE ACTIONS

The Miniatures Handbook introduced the concept of a new action
type: the swift action. Likewise, Expanded Psionics Handbook in-
troduced another new action type: the immediate action. Some
of the class features, feats, spells, and items in Player's Hondbook
{) use these concepts. A description of how they work follows
Swift Action: A swift action consumes a very small amount of
time, but represents a larger expenditure of effort and energy than
a free action. You can perform one swift action per turn without
affecting your ability to perform other actions. In that regard, a swift
action is like a free action. However, you can perform only a single
swift action per turn, regardless of what other actions you take.
Casting a quickened spell a swift action. In addition, casting any
spell with a casting time of 1 swift action (such as blade of blood;

 

see page 103) is a swift action. Casting a spell with a casting time
of 1 swift action does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

Immediate Action: Much like 2 swift action, an immediate
action consumes a very smail amount of time, but represents a
larger expenditure of effort and energy than a free action, Unlike
a swift action, an immediate action can be performed at any
time—even if it's not your turn.

Using an immediate action on your turn is the same as using a
swift action, and counts as your swift action for that tum. You cannot
use another immediate action or a swift action until after your next
turn if you have used an immediate action when it is not currently
your turn (effectively, using an immediate action before your turn is
equivalent to using your swift action for the coming turn), You also
cannot use an immediate action if you are currently flat-footed

   
