 

 

er introduces four hew standard classes,

 

each designed to fill a specific niche in the game:

ith

 
   
 

Like any new classes, they provide

 

 

 

mor racters and
provide DMs with new potential foes to pit against
the PC

Beguiler: The warmage (destribed in Complete
ah arcane spelleastet who focuses ona tightly th
vf spells. The beguiler takes that idea and does for enchant

ions when it's time to make ck

 

ed group

merit and illusion spells what the warmage did for evocation
With a dash of transmura
ultimate versatile spellcaster, with a trick

n thrown in, the beguiler isthe

 

or solution for
every encounter.

Dragon Shaman; Drawing on the ancient power of
dragons, the dragon shaman provides powerful boosts to
every character in the patty. The defensive and augmentation
abilities of this class allow.a group with a dragon shaman to
advenrure without a cleric.

Duskblade: This class provides melee comb
ties'and arcane spellcasting in equal measure. Alt
other ways to achieve this mix of powers exist iaahidine

& multiclass characters and prestige classes, the duskblade
offers this combination from tst level and throughour all
levels of play.
Knight: Skilled with armor and shield, a knight controls
> the battlefield im ways that no fighter or paladin ever could
‘and can ensure that foes center their attacks on the knight

  

 

  
 

Els

ETN Lem he- A Aston

      
         
       
      
  
    
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
   

   

faither thin on more vulnerable allies. No other melee-
otienred ¢
to.dn fluence whit foes do in cor
that are usttally the

lass Has sormuch defensive prowess or ability

  
 

bat, aspects of the game
province of spellcasters. While an able
melee combatant, the knight is different in play-fram all
previous melee combat Classes because of hiscontrol-
oriented abilities

NEW STARTING PACKAGES

One of the features of Player's Handbook JTis a new treat

 

ment for sta
behind the starting

ackages, expanding on the concept
ackages previously presented in
the Player's Handbook and other publications. The new
classes Aesctibed in this'chapter and the cighteen
other classes discussed in Chapter 2 have three start-
ing packages for you to'choose from, Each package
hasan evocative title thar describes the character's
role inthe party (such as “Defender” or “Controllet
tolgive you an idea of the concept behind it. Some
descriptions appear more than once—for example,
both the fighter and the ranger have a starting pack-
age called ’the Archer.” Some of thesetitles match
those in Table A-3: Feat Progressions by Party Role
(starting on page 209), but such similarities do not
necessarily extend to the feats recommended. A race
is specified for each package, but you can adjust the
details to fit any race without too much trouble,

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

   

iF
