    
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

  
  
       

Each package specifies race, ability scores (which include
racial modifiers), skills, feats, gear, and if appropriate, spells
and class features, The skills all have maximum ranks—4
ranks in each class skill and 2 ranks in each cross-class skill.
(Cross-class skills are designated by the letters “cc.") Spells in
parentheses are available only if your character's key abiliry
core for spellcasting is high enough to grant a bonus tstlevel
spell (or, if the character is a wizard, her Intelligence bonus
is high enough to grant bonus spells in her spellbook), The
class features section appears only for characters who have
optional class features available ar 1st level, such as clerics
(domains), druids (animal companions), and sorcerers and
wizards (familiars)

You can use these starting packages in any way you like, You
are welcome to swap one skill for another, one feat for another
(provided that your character meets the prerequisites), one
spell for another, or one piece of gear for another of roughly
equivalent value (within 5 gp). With a couple of exceptions,
the starting packages in this book use only information
available in the Player's Handbook. Thus, if you have ac
to other rulebooks, you might want to swap out a few feats
or weapons for options provided in those publications, The
class features are likewise customizable.

Most packages include the standard adventurer's kit—
backpack, belt pouch, bedroll, flint and steel, two sunrods,
ten days worth of trail rations, 50 feet of hempen rope, and
waterskin. (Monks don't get the sunrods because they have
too few gp at 1st level.)

—___ BEGUILER

“You know me. I'm as good as my word, and my life s an open book
said with a straight face by Anastria Nailo,
half-elf beguiler

 

 

 

ess

 

Some hold truth to be the greatest virtue, but it can do
more damage than fiction. Everyone lives in a constant
state of deception. White lies, false smiles, and secret
thoughts keep society running smoothly. Honesty is a virtue
only up toa certain point. Beguilers understand these ideas
better than anyone, and they use deception, misunderstand.

   

MAKING A BEGUILER

As a beguiler, you possess many useful skills and spells.
If your adventuring group lacks a rogue, you make a great
substitute for all but the rogue’s melee combat strengths. If
the group lacks a wizard or other arcane caster, you can also
fill that role with your command of illusions and enchant

ments, although you lack a wizard's array of spells that deal
damage and you possess less spellcasting versatility. Your
main strategy should be to control enemies, bolster your
allies, and take command of the battlefield.

Abilities: Beguilers have quick wits, deft hands, and
compelling personalities. You need a high Intelligence to
get the most from your spells and skills. A high Charisma
helps you be more convincing in your deceptions, while a
high Dexterity helps you with the sneaky tasks you are likely
to pursue. Don't neglect Constitution; although you have the
same Hit Die as a rogue, your Constitution scote influences
your ability to cast defensively and thus how well you can
use your surprise casting class feature.

Races: Beguilers can be found among any race, but gnomes
and half-elves seem to most appreciate the beguilers' flexible
philosophy about truth. Being tricksters and inquisitive by
nature, gnomes gravitate to the beguiler class due to the
interesting deeds it allows them to accomplish. Half-elves,
trapped as they are between the worlds of elves and humans,
find that a beguiler’s abilities help them better exist in both
Humans, elves, and halflings also foster beguilers in their
midst, but dwarves and half-orcs rarely become members of
the class. Dwarves tend to dislike dissembling, and halFores
typically lack the mental discipline and likable personality
required to make a good beguiler.

Alignment: The beguilers’ outlook about truth is neither
good nor evil, and beguilers of all alignments walk the world
Nevertheless, those well practiced in the arts of deception and
manipulation rarely put much stock in others’ laws, and they
often display a self-centered attitude, Lawful good beguilers
are like lawful good necromancers—rare and foreign even
to their fellows.

Starting Gold: 6d4x10 gp (150 gp).

Starting Age: As wizard (PH 109).

 

 

 

ing, and secrets as skillfully as a soldier employs weapons CLASS FEATURES

of war.

Beguilers see lying and manipulation as tools. Just as a
hammer can be used to build a house or crack a skull, deceit
and the ability to control others can be used for good or ill
A lie whispered in the right ear can ruin lives, but a dishon:
est smile and honeyed words can open doors, turn foes into
friends, and even end wars, Beguilers have reputations as
rakes, thieves, spies, and puppet masters, but they can also
be diplomats, peacemakers, or heroic leaders who give hope
in desperate situations.

If you delight in manipulating others, either to their
disadvantage or for their own good, then the beguiler is the
class for you, More than any other kind of character, you rely
on Charisma-based skills to change the reactions of others,
while your other class abilities enable you to
guard with devastating spell-based attacks.

 

ich others off

 

Your spells and skills make you well suited to espionage and
dungeon delving. In addition to being able to find and disarm
traps your group might encounter, you can charm and con-
found guards, rurning what could be dangerous encounters
into simple steps toward your goal. In combat, you can use
your spells to trick and outmaneuver foes

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Beguilers are proficient
with all simple weapons plus the hand crossbow, rapier,
shortbow, and short sword. Beguilers are proficient with light
armor, but not with shields

Spells: A beguiler casts arcane spells, which are drawn
from the beguiler spell list on page 11. When you gain
access to a new level of spells, you automatically know all
the spells for that level on the beguiler’s spell list. You can
cast any spell you know without preparing it ahead of time.
Essentially, your spell list is the same as your spells known

 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
    
  
