   

            
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
  
 
   
   
  
 

          
       

 

already know. Once a new spell is selected, it is forever added sk to Olidammara for obvious reasons, bur others

to your spell list and can be cast just like any other spellon _ prefer Fhatlanghn since he shares the

your list nings and travel. Gnome beguilers largely put their faith
You gain another new spell at 7th, 11th, 15th, and 19th —_ in Garl Glittergold, and some nongnome beguilers follow

   

 

suit. Many also fo

 

ww Boccob; the Lord of All Magics cares

  

little to what use

 

Silent Spell: At Sth level
bonus fe

Still Spell:
feat

PLAYING A BEGUILER

Truth lies in the eye of the beholder, Manipulation of Othe

gain Silent §

 

beguilers put their spe
,

 

and beguilers

 

prefer it that way, Evil beguilers often join Vecna's fold—the

    

     

r 10th le s Secret and Hidden wi

 

you gain Still Spell as abonus  Masterof Allth

 

smes beguilers

 

nipulating them toward ever greater acts of villainy ev

 

 

as they take advantage of their victims.

 

truth—

 

{ others’ visions of it—is a part of life. Everyone Few know of characters such as yourself because many

 

 

es it; you just do it better chan everyone else ‘ou nudge beguilers pretend to be something other than what th

   

are,

  

      

someone into doing something he otherwise wouldn't hay and you can easily pass as a rogue, bard, wizard, or sorcerer

done, that person still did the actual deed, and some part Those who learn of the class often have a poor impression

 

  

of him must have wanted it done. You trick fools, charm of beguilers unless they call one a friend, Wizards consider

 

¢ undisciplined and limited in their

 

egocentrics, influence schemers, and control the weak- _characterssuch as you to
willed, Ina way, you're doing them a favor. If they're clever

enough to figure out they've been manipulated, they'll

 

be better prepared to defen

   

manipulations of those who mean them harm, If they don't

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

figure it out, they'll get tricked again, but that's no con¢

 

of yours. Life is a game that you v

 

 

top, and the best way to do that is to convince oth
give you a boost
You might adventure because you desire excitement

Someone with your smarts gers bored with mundane

pursuits, Alternatively, you might have set off on

  

a life of adventure after some trick or manipt

Tilus. by S. Prescott

tion gone wrong. You have to keep moving, and

 

 

adventuring offers you a regular change of scer

ery. In any case, a life of adventure allows you

le,

 

to see new things, meet interesting pe

   
 

and garner a name for yourself, Of caur
it might n
is fame.

You a

edge and increase your power. You are

t be your real name, bur fame

  

 

ways look to expand your knowl.

to know there's always more
to learn nd to be self
reliant, you understand the value of
friendship and allies in your
pursuits. Truth might be
ble, but friends

 

clever enougt

 

h you

   

hou

  

m)

 

value honesty and

trust, so you make

 

Beguilers favor deities

who share their unfer

  

tered outlook and who

wo

 

id seem to appreciate
their schemes and strategies. Most
