 

magic, Knights, paladins, and monks rightly think of yo
untrustworthy. Rangers, dragon shamans, barbarians, and
druids rarely have patience for your prevarications and your
enjoyment of civilized society. Rogues, duskblades, sorcer-
ers, and fighters tend to be more practical: If your abilities
make their jobs easier, then you find a welcome reception.
Bards often find the life led by beguilers fascinating and are
intrigued by a beguiler’s exploits

Combat

You're at your best when you can catch foes unaware. Use
your spells to hide and disguise yourself and your allies
so that you can employ surprise tactics. If you get into
melee, use the Bluff skill to feint in combat and thus get
the drop on your enemy with cloaked casting or surprise
casting. Control the terrain with spells such as grease and
fog cloud. Control foes with charm person and dominate
monster spells.

Advancement
Remaining a beguiler typically presents the best course of
advancement. The rogue class might seem like a natural
choice for multiclassing, but you don't gain much from taking
levels in it, Although it gives you the sneak attack ability, it
detracts from your spellcasting prowess.

You should assign skill points according to your role in your
adventuring group. If the group already has a rogue who is
good at finding traps and sneaking about, boost your ranks
in social skills such as Diplomacy and Gather Information,
Remember that you can use spells such as invisibility and
silence for stealth, and spells such as knock and spider climb to
do things for which rogues must use skills. High bonuses in
Bluff and Concentration are a must if you're going to use the
surprise casting ability.

You have many good options for feats, but be sure co take
Combat Casting, Combat Expertise, and Improved Feint
to get the most from surprise casting and cloaked casting,
Complete Adventurer offers Mobile Spellcasting, a feat that
allows you to cast a spell and move as a single standard
action. Combining this with the benefits provided to you by
Improved Feint and the Tumble skill, you could move into
melee, feint, and cast a spell that gets the benefit of cloaked
casting or surprise casting. You should also consider taking
the Battle Caster feat from Complete Arcane, which allows a
beguiler to wear medium armor without spell failure. Com-
bining it with the Armor Proficiency (medium) feat gives
you much greater protection. If you're interested in having
alot of feats, it might be worthwhile to take a level of fighter,
since the 1st level of the fighter class gives you proficiency
with all rypes of armor and a bonus feat you could use for
Combat Expertise or Improved Feint

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Controller
Human Beguiler
Ability Scores: Str 8, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 13.
Skills: Bluff, Concentration, Disable Device, Hide, Move
Silently, Open Lock, Search, Sense Motive, Spot.

 

  

  

 

Languages: Common, Goblin, Orc.

Fent: Improved Initiative, Spell Focus (enchantment).

Weapons: Short sword (1d6/19-20),

Armor; Chain shirt (+4 AC).

Other Gear; Standard adventurer’s kit, spell component
pouch, thieves’ tools, 20 gp

Package 2: The Investigator
Half-Elf Beguiler

Ability Scores: Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 15, Wis 12, Cha 13.

Skills; Bluff, Gather Information, Hide, Move Silently, Open
Lock, Search, Sense Motive, Spot.

Languages: Common, Dwarven, Elven, Goblin.

Frat: Spell Focus (enchantment)

Weapons; Rapier (1d6/18—20), shorthow with 20 arrows
(1d6/x3, 60 ft.)

Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC).

Other Gear; Standard adventurer's kit, spell component
pouch, thieves’ tools, 23 gp.

Package 3: The Trickster
Gnome Beguiler

Ability Scores: Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 8, Cha 13

Skills; Bluff, Disguise, Escape Artist, Hide, Move Silently,
Search, Spot, Use Magic Device.

Languages: Common, Giant, Gnome, Goblin.

Frat: Spell Focus (illusion),

Weapons: Morningstar (1d6), light crossbow with 20 bolts
(1de/x3, 60 ft.),

Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy steel shield (+2 AC).

Other Gear: Standard adventurer’s kit, spell component
pouch, thieves’ tools, 40 gp.

BEGUILERS IN THE WORLD

“Just wait ‘till 1 get my hands on her. No one makes a fool of
Obramus Tumbor!”
—Obramus Tumbor, being made a fool of by a beguiler

 

 

The beguiler class gives players a chance to play the arche-
typal trickster. The class provides the skill set of a rogue
anda selection of arcane spells without the complications of
balancing multiple classes. Beguilers also make great villains.
By manipulating NPCs and situations the PCs encounter,
an evil beguiler can operate behind the scenes and trick the
adventurers to his own ends.

Daily Life

The way a beguiler behaves depends on his or her individual
sense of morality. Some think nothing of adopting false
identities or impersonating others as a matter of course.
They rely on their spells and their charm to get others to
give them what they want. Other beguilers find themselves
driven to use their powers of persuasion to help people.
They see the daily troubles of others and can't help getting
involved in solving arguments, matchmaking, and ending
feuds. Regardless of outlook, a beguiler in a civilized area
rarely gets bored. There's always something to meddle in or
some grand scheme to enact.

 
