   
   
 
   
  
 
   
   

Beguilers can become great leaders. With their sharp
minds and great charisma, beguilers would be natural leaders
were it not for their inconstancy. Beguilers regularly devise
brilliant plans for espionage or trickery—plans that usually
require them to play a major role—but their natural penchant
for improvisation and secrecy often means that such plans
possess unpredictable elements or key parts hidden from all
other participants. Ifa beguiler earns the rust of companions
they value her leadership. Lacking that trust, a beguiler rarely
leads for long

 

  

Notables

Beguilers often gain notoriety for their deeds, alchough
usually under a false identity, They earn fame, rather than
infamy, when they use their abilities to serve a greater good
Anastria Nailo did so when she tricked an entire orc army
into a box canyon where it could be ambushed, and again
when she charmed a leader of a city and learned that he
had already been charmed by a mind flayer. Since she was
pretending to be a famous elf bard at the time, Anastira can
still maintain a low profile despite her famous deeds, which
is just the way she likes it

   

Organizations

Beguilers don't organize together, but they often join other
organizations, especially thieves guilds and secret political
groups. A beguiler joining an organization probably has a
specific goal in mind and rakes position that best allows her
to attain it, A long-term commitment to such a group rarely
appeals to a beguiler, bur if the organization champions a
cause close to the beguiler’s heart, it can count on her very
best efforts.

NPC Reactions
Few common folk understand beguilers to be different
from sorcerers or wizards who have some rogue training,
and many more mistake them for bards, Beguilers further
confuse the issue by regularly adopting false identities
and hiding their varied abilities. Thus, the reaction a
beguiler gets from those she meets depends on what she is
pretending to be at the time. Individuals who know about
the beguiler class and the outlook common to its members
greet beguilers with an attitude one step more hostile than
normal. Paladins and knights in particular lock poorly
upon beguilers, as does anyone who puts great importance
in forthrightness.

BEGUILER LORE

Characters with ranks in Knowledge (arcana) can research
beguilers to learn more about them. When acharacter makes
askill check, read or paraphrase the following, including the
information from lower DCs.

 

DC 15: Beguilers are arcane spellcasters who focus on
illusions and enchantments. They employ deception and
compulsory magic to get what they want

DC 20: Beguilers can cast spells in light armor, and they
have many of the skills of rogues

 

   

BEGUILERS IN THE GAME

Beguilers fit smoothly into any ongoing game, since they are
lirtle known and don't require the insertion of an organiza-
tion into the world or the addition of lots of new mechanics
to the game, You can have a beguiler first appear as a villain
when players discover a secret manipulator behind foul deeds
they have been investigating. A beguiler might first appear
as a foe and end up anally, or the reverse could happen. A
PC beguiler can be introduced to the party just as any rogue,
bard, or wizard would be.

 

Think of a beguiler as similar to Loki of Norse myth or
the Coyote in Native American tales. The player of a beguiler
wants her to be smooth, sly, smart, likable, and light on her
feet. Keeping this player happy is a matter of helping the
player to feel chat way. You might be tempted to make the
player's schemes go awry because that seems more interest-
ing to you, but instead you should allow good schemes to
work mostof the time, Leta player with a beguilercharacter
feel empowered to try crazy ideas and dangerous plans. If
it becomes roo much of a good thing, then that’s when the
guards see through her disguise or the villain allows the
unwitting PCs to infiltrate their way into his chstches,

 

Adaptation

When adapting the beguiler to your campaign, look at how
rogues and bards fir into your game. The beguiler fills a
similar niche, and any organizations that cater to such classes
likely prove helpful for beguilers. A thieves’ guild might have
asmall cabal of beguilers associated with it. The beguilers aid
the guild on any missions that require their magical talents,
In return, the beguilers receive protection, a share of the
loot, and a headquarters. Young thieves who show a knack
for magic might be shepherded into the beguiler class.

Ina kingdom or land where magic is common, beguilers
might replace the typical rogue, diplomat, or spy. A bandit
gang might consist of several beguilers and a number of
fighters, In such lands, magic supersedes a rogue's talent
with skills.

With their talent for deception, a beguiler might have a
reputation similar to the ninja, The common folk fear the
beguilers for their ability to bend minds and to use magic
to slip away from the authorities, Every royal court employs
a few mages charged with using their spells to ferret out
beguilers. In this case, the beguilers are secrerive, clannish,
and difficult to find. They gather in secret societies and never

 

reveal their lore to those whom they do not trust. Becoming
a beguiler is a process of winning the trust of one’s master,
not simply mastering a few simple spells.

Sample Encounter
An encounter with a beguiler should highlight her use of
surprise tactics and manipulation of others to do her bidding,
In addition to charmed or dominated minions, a beguiler
often gathers allies under false pretenses. Fighting a villain:

ous beguiler should be tricky for the PCs, because they will be
forced to figure out who their real enemies are while trying
to avoid hurting innocents whom the beguiler has dragged
into the fight, The PCs might even have to figure out who

 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
