Draconic Aura (Su): You can channel the mighty powers
of dragonkind to project an aura that grants you and nearby
allies a special benefir

Projecting an aura is a swift action (see page 4), and youcan
only project one draconic aura at a time, An aura remains in
effect until you use a free action to dismiss it or you activare
another aura in its place. You can have a draconic aura active
continually; thus, an aura can be in effect at the start of an
encounter even before you take your first turn.

Unless otherwise noted, your draconic aura affects all
allies within 30 feet (including yourself) with line of effect
to you, Your aura is dismissed if you become unconscious or
are slain, but otherwise it remains in effect even if you are
incapable of acting.

‘The bonus granted by your aura beginsat +1 and increases
to +2 at Sth level, +3 ar 10th level, +4 at 15th level, and +5 at
20th level. As a istlevel dragon shaman, you know how to
project three auras chosen from the list below. At every odd-
numbered level after that, you learn one additional draconic
aura of your choice, until all seven auras are known at 9th
level. Each time you activate a draconic aura, you can choose
from any of the auras that you know.

Energy Shield; Any creature striking you or your ally with
anatural attack ora nonreach melee weapon is dealt 2 points
of energy damage for each point of your aura bonus. The
energy type is that of your totem dragon's damage-dealing
breath weapon (see below),

Power: Bonus on melee damage rolls equal to your aura bonus.

Presence: Bonus on Bluff, Diplomacy, and Intimidate checks
equal to your aura bonus.

Resistance: Resistance to your totem dragon's energy type
equal to 5 x your aura bonus,

Senses: Bonus on Listen and Spot checks, as well as on
initiative checks, equal to your aura bonus.

‘Toughness: DR 1/magic for each point of your aura bonus
(up to 5/magic at 20th level)

Vigor: Fast healing 1 for each point of your aura bonus, but
only affects characters at or below one-half their full normal
hit points.

Totem Dragon: You must choose a totem dragon from
among the true dragons appearing in the Monster Manual (black,
blue, brass, bronze, copper, gold, green, red, silver, or white)

You must choose a dragon whose alignment is within one
step of yours, as described in the following table. You gain
additional class skills and a particular sort of breath weapon
based on the dragon you select as your totem.

Skill Focus: Ar 2nd level, you gain Skill Focus as a bonus
feat. You must apply the feat to one of the three class skills
granted by your chosen totem dragon. For example, a blue
dragon shaman can select Skill Focus (Bluff), Skill Focus
(Hide), or Skill Focus (Spellcraft).

At 8th level, and again at t6th level, you gain Skill Focus
in another of the class skills granted by your chosen totem
dragon. If you already have Skill Focus in all three of the skills
associated with your totem dragon, you gain Skill Focus in
any other dragon shaman class skill.

Draconic Adaptation (Ex or Sp): At 3rd level, you take
on an aspect of your totem dragon. Some adaptations are

 

 

Totem Acceptable Breath Weapon
Dragon Alignment — Class Skills Energy Type
Black  NE,CE,CN Hide, Move Line of acid

Silently, Swim

Blue NE, LE,LN Bluff, Hide, Line of electricity

Spellcraft

Brass NG,CG,CN Bluff,Gather —_Line of fire
Information, Survival

Bronze NG,LG,LN Disguise, Line of electricity
Survival, Swim

Copper NG,CG,CN Bluff, Hide, Line of acid
Jump

Gold NG,LG,LN Disguise, Heal, Cone of fire
Swim

Green NE,LE,LN Bluff, Hide, Cone of acid
Move Silently

Red NE,CE,CN Appraise, Bluff, Cone of fire
Jump

Silver NG,LG,LN Bluff, Disguise, Cone of cold
Jump

White NE,CE,CN Hide, Move Cone of cold

Silently, Swim

extraordinary abilities that are always active; others are spell-
like abilities that you can activate at will. Spell-like abilities
have a caster level equal to your class level and a save DC
equal to 10 + spell level + Cha modifier.

Black—Water Breathing (Ex): You can breathe underwater
indefinitely and can freely use spells and other abilities
underwater (always active).

Blue—Ventriloquism (Sp): As the spell (at will).

Brass—Endure Elements (Sp): As the spell, except you can
only target yourself (at will).

Bronze—Water Breathing (Ex): You can breathe underwater
indefinitely and can freely use spells and other abilities
underwater (always active).

Copper—Spider Climb (Sp): As the spell, except you can
only target yourself (at will).

Gold—Warer Breathing (Ex): You can breathe underwater
indefinitely and can freely use spells and other abilities
underwater (always active).

Green—Water Breathing (Ex): You can breathe underwater
indefinitely and can freely use spells and other abilities
underwater (always active

Red—Treasure Seeker (Ex): You gain a +5 competence bonus
on Appraise and Search checks (always active).

Silver—Feather Fall (Sp): As the spell, except you can only
target yourself (at will),

White—Icewalker (Ex); You can walk across icy surfaces
without reducing your speed or making Balance checks
(always active).

At 13th level, you can choose as a swift action (see page 4)
to share the effect of your draconic adaptation with any or
all allies within 30 feet. In the case of spell-like abilities, you
must make this decision when you activate the ability, The
benefir lasts until you spend a free action to rescind it or (if
the effect has a limited duration) the effect ends, whichever
comes first.

Breath Weapon (Su): At 4th level, you gain a breath
weapon corresponding to your totem dragon. Regardless of
the area one affects or the type of energy damage it deals, all

 

 

 

 

 

 
