 
  
  
   
 

    
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
    
  
 
 

       

breath weapons deal 2d6 points of damage, plus an extra 1d6
points of damage for every two additional class levels (346 at
6th level, 4dé6 at 8th level, and so forth). A successful Reflex
save halves the damage dealt; rhe save DC is equal to 10 +
1/2 your dragon shaman level + your Con modifier. Just like
a true dragon, once you breathe you must wait 1d4 rounds
before you can use your breath weapon again.

Cone-shaped breath weapons extend out to 15 feet at 4th
level, increasing to 30 feet at 12th level and to 60 feet at
20th level. Line-shaped breath weapons are 30 feet long at
4th level, increasing to 60 feet at 12th level and to 120 feet
at 20th level.

Draconic Resolve (Ex): Ar 4th level, you gain immunity
to paralysis and sleep effects. You also become immune to
the frightful presence of dragons

Touch of Vitality (Su): At 6th level, you can heal the
wounds of living creatures (your own or those of others) by
touch. Each day you can heal a number of points of damage
equal to twice your class level x your Charisma bonus, For
example, a 7th-level dragon shaman with a Charisma score of
14 (+2 bonus) can heal 28 points of damage. You can choose
to divide your healing among multiple recipients, and you
don't have to use ir all ar once. Using your tauch of vitality
is a standard action. It has no effect on undead

Beginning at 11th level, you can choose to spend some
of the healing bestowed by your touch of vitality to remove
other harmful conditions affecting the target

For every 5 points of your healing ability you expend,
you can cure 1 point of ability damage or remove the dazed,
fatigued, or sickened condition from one individual.

For every 10 points of your healing ability you expend, you
can remove the exhausted, nauseated, poisoned, or stunned
condition from one individual

For every 20 points of your healing ability you expend
you can remove a negative level or the blinded, deafened, or
diseased condition from one individual,

  

 

  

 

You can remove a condition (or more than one condi-
tion) and heal damage with the same touch, so long as you
expend the required number of points. For example, if you
wanted to heal 12 points of damage and remove the blinded
and exhausted conditions from a target, you would have to
expend 42 points (12 hit points restored plus 20 points for
blinded plus 10 points for exhausted).

Natural Armor (Ex): At 7th level, your skin thickens.
developing faint s
by 1. At 12th level, this improvement increases to +2, and at
17th level to +3,

Energy Immunity (Ex): At 9th level, you gain immu:
nity to the energy type of the breath weapon you gained
at 4th level

Commune with Dragon Spirit (Sp): At 14th level, you
gain the ability to contact your dragon totem directly to ask
questions of it. This is the equivalent of casting a commune
spell, except that it has no material component, focus, ot XP
cost and allows only one question per three class levels. After

 

cales, Your natural armor bonus improves

using this ability, you cannot use it again for seven days.
Draconic Wings (Ex): At 19th level, you grow a pair of
wings that resemble those of your totem dragon. They allow

 

   

flight at a speed of 60 feet (good maneuverability). You can
even fly while carrying a medium load, though your fly speed
drops to 40 feet in this case.

If you already have wings, you can choose whether these
draconic wings replace your own.

PLAYING A DRAGON SHAMAN

Asa dragon shaman, you believe the acquisition of power is
a worthy end in itself, By having power, you can effect your
will in the world, be it beneficent or malign. Those who have
or seek power deserve your respect, while those who have
power but fail to use it earn your derision.

Your strength comes from devoting yourself to dragons,
the primal embodiment of the principle of power, but you
worship dragons in the abstract, honoring them much as a
cleric might honor light as symbol of purity and goodness.
Dragons gather power to themselves simply by living and
aging, but you must actively seek the influence and might
you desire. As a dragon hungers for flesh to feed itself or for
treasure to enlarge its hoard, so you hunger for power.

You ad uit of a desire to test yourself and prove
your worth; whatever the specific inducement, the urge t0
gain more power underlies every quest. Drawn by your power,
others follow your lead, and you are happy to command them.
Being a great leader is just one of the many ways you can
manifest your power.

 

 

   

neure

 

Religion
Dragon shamans can worship any deity, but most worship
divine powers that encourage thelr worshipers to he prosc-
tive in pursuit of the deiry’s goals. Dragon shamans often
worship Erythnul, Gruumsh, Heironeous, Hextor, Kord, or
St. Cuthbert, as well as dragon deities such as Bahansut and
Tiamat, They tarely find much to admire in more passive

ob, Ehlonna, Fharlanghn,

 

 

 

of protective deities such as Boc
and Yondalla

 

Dragon shamans from more primitive societies sometimes
worship true dragons. These savage dragon shamans might
worship all true dragons, assigning each color or metallic
hue its own place in a crude pantheon of totemic spirits. Or
they might worship a single color or meral as the best among
all the true dragons, finding it the most representative of
pure power. In rare cases, a dragon shaman worships and
serves a particular true dragon. How the dragon reacts to
such worship depends on that individual dragon; even good
dragons might take advantage of a dragon shaman’s worship
to achieve their own aims.

Other Classes

You work well with melee-oriented allies such as fighters,
duskblades, barbarians, rogues, and even druids. Those
characters value the benefits a dragon shaman can grant them
and rarely make an issue of their source. Clerics, paladins,
monks, and knights are often suspicious of your moral out-
look unless you have dedicated yourself to a kind of dragon
that associates itself with a code of ethics similar to their own.
Wizards, bards, and beguilers view you indifferently, whereas
sorcerers might seek you out to learn more of the source of
