     
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
    
 
  
 
 

Hlius. by L. Parillo

 
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
    

Armor; Studded leather (+3 AC),
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 8 gp.

DRAGON SHAMANS IN THE WORLD

“There are differences from ane to another, based on the dragon each

shaman honors, but the main thing to remember is this; The whole
Tot of them are mad for power.”

—Durven Ironscale, a dwarf sorcerer

instructing the young of the Ironscale clan

Dragon shamans put the power and appeal of dragons in
players’ hands while providing DMs with a new way to put
dragons in the D&D game. The class provides an uncom-
plicated way to have a new play experience, and each NPC
dragon shaman could provide the nucleus for an interesting
cult or villainous organization the PCs must face,

Daily Life
A dragon shaman remains ever ready to face the challenges
of a new day. Without the need to rest, study, or pray for
their powers, dragon shamilns can Yeap up in pursuit of
power whenever they desire. This capability causes most
dragon shamans to be decisive and swift to act. Chaotic
dragon shamans are often impetuous and energetic, while
lawful dragon shamans tend to be more ready to improvise
and less rigid in their thinking than some might expect
Dragon shamans desire power and constantly seek the
means to gain it. To dragon shamans, life and adventure
are one and the same.

Dragon shamans often possess the charisma and take-
charge attitude required of great leaders, but many suffer
from an inability to empathize with those they lead, Dragon
shamans respect the pursuit of might and its use, and they
often minimize the value of those who adhere to other
philosophies. Even among themselves, dragon shamanstend
to be contentious, and a single dragon shaman rarely takes
a leadership role over a group of his fellows for any length
of time. Although dragon shamans give great respect to one
another, each is always trying to outdo the others in all pur-
suits. The most powerful dragon shaman leaders arise among
savage tribes that worship dragons, where a single dragon
shaman relies on his forceful personality and impressive
powers to win the hearts of comrades

 

Notables

The pursuit of power garners notoriety fora dragon shaman,
burit also can bring about his death or force him into exile.
A powerful dragon shaman warlord might suddenly ar
and terrorize an area for a time, only to fall from power as
swiftly as he appeared. A case in point would be the history
ofa barbaric human named Kalia. Under her leadership, her
tribe of red dragon worshipers raided and razed hundreds
of elfand human towns on the border between two nations.
Then she vanished, and soon afterward her leaderless tribe
was caught in an ambush and exterminated. Some say she
died in a squabble with a fellow dragon shaman, but other
believe she left her tribe to directly serve a red dragon wyrm
that laired in distant mountains.

   

  

Organizations
Dragon shamans rarely work together for long unless they
are led by a dragon of the type to which all the shamans
present have dedicated themselves. In such cases, the dragon
is either worshiped or leads because the dragon shamans
see it as the embodiment of all they seek; thus, obeying the
dragon's edicts presents the swiftest path to that desired
goal. Rank and privilege rarely have much meaning in such
groups. Instead, the dragon decides each shaman’s duties
according to his or her merit, changing such assignments as
necessary, Such a group exists among the Ironscale clan. Tied
toa long-dead silver dragon by blood, the dwarf clan fosters
sorcerers and is led by a half-dragon. Despite these firm ties to
dragonkind, the clan views its dragon shaman members with
some suspicion, since they follow the orders of an unrelated
silver dragon that lairs near the clan home.

 

NPC Reactions

Dragon shamans who don't show aspects of their affiliation
with dragons rarely elicit an unusual reaction from others.
To most they seem like simple warriors or perhaps barbar-
ians. Those who know of their pursuit of draconic power or
who see evidence of it, such as scales or a dragon shaman's
breath weapon, react depending on their attitude toward the
dragon shaman’s totem dragon. This reaction is one step closer
to hostile if the dragon is of a kind feared or hated by thar
individual. The reaction is one step closer to friendly if that
individual is directly associated with a dragon of that kind.
Clerics, paladins, and others who are deeply entrenched ina
particular moral outlook view the dragon shaman’s devotion
with suspicion, and their reaction is one step closer to hostile
regardless of the dragon shaman's totem dragon.

DRAGON SHAMAN LORE

Characters with ranks in Knowledge (arcana) can research
dragon shamans to learn more about them. When a character
makesa skill check, read or paraphrase the following, includ-
ing the information from lower DCs.

DC 10: Dragon shamans devote themselves to dragons and
aspire to their power.

DC 15: A dragon shaman devotes himself to a particular
kind of true dragon and gains powers based on the dragon
chosen. He can use the dragon's breath weapon and grow
dragonlike scales. Very powerful dragon shamans can grow
dragon wings and fly,

DC 20: In addition to the details above, this result allows
the PC to know that a dragon shaman projects an aura that
can bolster himself and his allies in a number of ways and
can heal damage or remove negative conditions somewhat
like a paladin.

DRAGON SHAMANS IN THE GAME

Dragon shamans fit easily into any ongoing campaign because
true dragons are a cornerstone of neatly every DUNGEON &
Dracons game. The PCs might first learn of dragon shamans
by encountering a cult of dragon worshipers near a dragon's
lair. Alternatively, a more civilized group of dragon shamans
might serve a dragon who rules city, A lone dragon shaman

 

   
