   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
   

 
   
  
  
   
   
 

       

makes an excellent new villain, a powerful temporary ally, or
an eager participant in an ongoing plot because his focused
pursuit of power can get him involved in anyone's scheme
to gain it

Dragon shaman PCs should present no more difficulty
than introducing a monk or cleric of a lesser-known deity,
Although the character's abilities might be somewhat foreign,
the idea that an individual is so dedicated to one philosophy
that it grants him powers should be easily understood. The
player of a dragon shaman usually finds the character's
association with dragons to be the most entertaining part of
the class. Before featuring adventures that deal with dragons,
ask thar player about her character's philosophy concerning
dragons. Does the character admire dragons in the abstract.
worship them as living gods, or hold toa philosophy between
these extremes? The answer should inform your adventure
planning and inspire new adventure ideas. Be careful
about using the PC's dedication to dragons to manipulate
the character's actions; Occasional use of this idea might
provoke some interesting roleplaying, but the player won't
enjoy your game if a dragon shows up eyery session to boss
her PC around.

Adaptation

You canalter the dragon shaman to suit your game ina number
of ways. You could decide that all dragon shamans are barbaric,
or that all them are civilized and sophisticated disciples of
dragons who prefer to work behind the scenes through such
agents. You might decide that only good dragons are available
to your players for their totem dragons, or chat a particular
organization fosters dragon shamans devoted toa single kind
of dragon. If you feature other dragons prominently in your
game, such as the gem dragons from Monster Manual I orthe
deep dragon and the shadow dragon from Monsters of Faeriin,
you might consider changing the class's features to allow a
dragon shaman to follow other kinds of dragons as well.

  

 

Sample Encounter
Dragon shamans make excellent villains and tricky allies. As
a villain, a dragon shaman dedicated to an evil dragon can
be paired with a cult of followers, half-dragons, and dragons

 

 

    

of all ages to make for exciting themed encountets. As an
ally, a dragon shaman's blind pursuit of power could create
interesting friction with the PCs and turn an ally into an
enemy. A dragon shaman might become embroiled in the
PCs‘ pursuits if they come into possession of an item of great
power, if both the PCs and dragon shaman seek the same
source of power, or if the dragon shaman’s attempts to gather
power endanger the PCs or those they care about.

L 7: Thane has admired blue dragons ever since he wi
nessed a blue dragon's attack on his city when he was a child.
The power of the dragon and the futility of the defenders’
efforts against it frightened him, but he also found the spec-
tacle strangely thrilling. When he was older, Thane learned all
he could about blue dragons, With each new bit of knowledge,
his respect for them grew. In his search for information he
met a dragon shaman, and that encounter changed his life.
Now a dragon shaman himself, Thane seeks ever greater
power and hopes one day to have enough to challenge the
dragon that laid waste to his childhood home and prove
himself the stronger of the two, Thane seems single-minded
and focused. He always has a mental list of goals he wants
to achieve in any situation and doggedly pursues them.
Although outwardly calm and cold, he explodes into action
in an instant when thwarted.

 

 

THANE CR7
Male human blue dragon shaman 7
LN Medium humanoid
Init +1
Senses Listen +2, Spot +2
Aura draconic aura® +2
*Class feature described on page 13
Languages Common, Draconic
AC 21, touch 11, flat-footed 20
(+1 Dex, +6 armor, +3 shield)
hp 57 (7 HD)
Immune paralysis, sleep, frightful presence (dragons)
Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +6
Speed 20 ft. (4 squares)
Melee +1 morningstar +9 (1d8+3)
Ranged +1 light crossbow +7 (1d8+1/19-20)
Base Atk +5; Grp +7

 

rE NL i ree TTT

EX-DRAGON SHAMANS

Dragon shamans who change alignment could lose their powers
Ifa dragon shaman changes to an alignment still appropriate
to the dragon to which he is already dedicated, nothing hap-
pens. However, if the dragon shaman changes to an alignment
inappropriate for his chosen dragon, he immediately loses all
abilities granted by the dragon shaman class and becomes an
ex-dragon shaman,

An ex-dragon shaman can choose a new color or metallic hue
of true dragon to emulate and thus regain the powers granted
by the class. To switch to a new totem dragon, he must find 4
dragon shaman of higher level who is dedicated to that dragon
type. The higher-level dragon shaman must willingly expend
all her touch of vitality on the ex-dragon shaman each day for
a week. At the end of the week, the ex-dragon shaman gains

the class features of a dragon shaman dedicated to the newly
chosen totem dragon, including exchanging the focus of any
class-granted Skill Focus feats. Most dragon shamans who are
asked to perform this service demand payment in the form
of some great deed. This deed might be a demand that the
ex-dragon shaman retrieve magic items that will add to his
sponsor's power or simply a short quest to prove the ex-dragon
shaman's worth.

Dragon shamans can go through the same process to switch
chosen totem dragons even if they don't change alignment. If
a dragon shaman has an alignment appropriate for a different
true dragon color or hue, the shaman can switch to that kind of
dragon through a process identical to the one described above
for ex-dragon shamans.
