Special Actions breath weapon

Abilities Str 15, Dex 12, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 14

SQ touch of vitality (28 points)

Draconic Auras Known Energy Shield, Power, Presence,
Resistance, Senses, Vigor

Spell-Like Abilities (CL 7th)

At will—ventriloquism (DC 13)

Feats Ability Focus (breath weapon), Alertness, Lightning
Reflexes, Skill Focus (Bluff)", Weapon Focus
(morningstar)

Skills Bluff 410, Climb +1, Diplomacy +4, Disguise +2 (+4
acting), Intimidate +9, Knowledge (nature) +4, Listen
+2, Speak Language +0, Spot +2, Survival +0 (+2 in
aboveground natural environments)

Possessions +? breastplate, +1 heavy wooden shield, +1
morningstar, +1 light crossbow, cloak of resistance +1, 37 gp

Breath Weapon (Su) 30-ft. line, once every 1d4 rounds, 3d6
electricity, Reflex DC 17 half

—____ DUSK BLADE

“My blade and my magic are one art the sam
—Yele, elf duskblade

 

The duskblade blurs the line between spelleaster and
warrior, marrying the power of magic with hand-to-hand
combat prowess

A student of ancient elven spellcasting techniques, the
duskblade combines arcane spellcasting with the combat
skills ofa fighter. While the ability co cast arcane spells in
armor originated with the elves, over the millennia the secrets
of the duskblade have been disseminated to the other races,
and today members of any race can become a duskblade.

If you find you can't choose between being an arcane
spellcaster who zaps your enemies with powerful spells and
animble, powerful front-line melee character who lays them
low with a sword, the duskblade is the perfect class for you
Combining arcane magic with melee prowess, you're prepared
in any situation. Enemies who underestimate you never get
a second chance, since you don't even have to switch back
and forth between hands-on combat and spellcasting; you
can do both simultaneously.

MAKING A DUSKBLADE

The duskblade is a quintessential hybrid character, simultane.
ously a potent spellcaster and an effective melee combatant

The original duskblades were elite guardians in an ancient
elf empire, duelmasters and arcane spellcasters beyond
compare, Historical accounts vary on why they were called
duskblades; some say the name is symbolic of how they
combined swordplay and arcane magic—a night-and-day
combination. Others contend that the duskblades earned
their name when they were charged with preserving the elf
race in the face of a tide of darkness and evil.

The most powerful duskblades can duel a fighter toa stand-
still and match a wizard spell for spell—for a while, at least.
But the class really comes into its own when you embrace your
hybrid nature, using a quick-cast spell ro supplement your
melee attacks or combining a touch spell with a devastating
sword strike.

 

The duskblade is a good choice for players who know they
want a sword-wielding arcane spellcaster from the begin-
ning. By contrast, multiclass fighter/wizard combinations
and prestige classes such as the eldritch knight are better
suited for characters who begin their careers as fighters or
arcane spellcasters and only later contemplate embracing
their opposite

Abilities: Your Intelligence and Strength scores should be
as high as possible, since your spellcasting and melee combat
depend upon them, Your Constitution is also important,
because you need all the hit points you can get,

Races: The duskblade class originated among the ancient
elves, and to this day most duskblades are elves, However,
some humans and half-elves also have proved adept at
mastering the class's dual focus on combat and spellcast-
ing. Halflings, gnomes, dwarves, and half-orcs rarely enter
this class

Alignment: Since the duskblade class originated among
the elves, those who undergo the intense training required to
master the class abilities at the hands of an elf mentor often
end their apprenticeship sharing the chaotic good alignment
of most elves. However, duskblades are highly individualist
and can be of any alignment.

Starting Gold; 6d4«10 gp (150 gp}

Starting Age: As wizard (PH 109)

CLASS FEATURES

Your class fearures are simple to characterize: constant
improvement in your spellcasting, a fighter’s base attack
bonus progression, and ever-increasing mastery of arcane
magic in melee combat.

Weapon and Armor Proficiency; Duskblades are pro-
ficient with all martial weapons, as well as all armors and
shields (except tower shields).

Spells: You cast arcane spells, which are drawn from the
duskblade spell list on page 98. You can cast any spell you
know without preparing it ahead of time

Tolearn or cast a spell, you must have an Intelligence score
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Int 10 for 0-level spells,
Int 11 for 1stlevel spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class
for a saving throw against your spell is 10 + the spell level +
your Int modifier.

 

   

You can cast only a certain number of spells of each spell
level per day. Your base daily spell allotment is given on Table
1-3, Inaddition, you receive bonus spells per day if you have
a high Intelligence score (see Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers
and Bonus Spells, page 8 of the Player's Handbook.)

Spells Known: You begin play knowing two 0-level spells
and two 1st-level spells, chosen from the duskblade spell list
You also know one additional 0-level spell for each point of
Intelligence bonus

Each time you gain a new class level, you learn one
additional spell of any level you can cast, chosen from the
duskblade spell list

Upon reaching sth level, and at every subsequent odd-
numbered level, you can choose to learn a new spell in place
of one you already know. In effect, you lose access to the old
spell in exchange for gaining the new one. The new spell’s

 

 
