    
     
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 

yD. Hudnut

Ihus. b

 

level must be the same as that of the spell being exchanged.

 

 

and it must be at least two levels lower than the highestlevel

 

spell you can cast. For instar

could trade ina single istlevel spe

 

e, upon reaching 9th level, you

  

two els below the

ferent

 

highest-level spell you can cast, which is 3rd) for ad

1 pell at ar

 

istlevel spell. You can swap only a single

 

   

level and must choose whet’

 

or not to swap the s

 

same time that you gain new spells known for the level
You need not prepare spells in advance. You can cast any
spell you know at any time, assuming you have not yet used
up your spells per day for that spell level
Arcane Attunement (Sp); You can use the spell-like

    

powers dancing lights, detect magic, flare, ghost sound, and read

 

magic a combined total of times per day equal to 3 + your Int
modifier. These spell-like powers do not count against your
total of spel

Armored Mage (

 

know s per day

 

‘mally, armor of any type inter

feres with an arcane spellcaster's gestures, which can cause

 

spells to fail if those spells ha
duskblade’s limited focus and specialized training, however

ve a somatic component. A

allows you to avoid arcane spell failure so long as you stick

ds, This training does not

 

to light armor and light shiel

 

 

extend to medium or heavy armors, nor to heavy
Thisa
spe

At4th level, you learn to use medium armor with no chance

bility does not apply to spells gained from

   

 

asting class

of arcane spell failure

Ar 7th level, you learn to use a heavy shield with no chance

 

 

cane spell failure
Combat Casting: At 2nd level, you gain Combat Casting

as a bonu:
Arcane Channeling (Su)
Beginning

at

 

 

3rd level, you can
use a standard

action to cast

  

     

   

any touch spell you know and deliver the spell through your

 

weapon with a melee artack. Casting a spell in this manner

does not provoke attacks of opportunity. The spell must

 

have a casting time of 1 standard action or less, If the melee
attack is successful, the attack deals damage normally; then
the effect of the spell is resolved

At 13th level, you can cast any touch spell you know as

t of a full artack action, and the spell affects each target

   

you hit in melee combat that round. Doing so discharges the
spell at the end of the round, in the case of a touch spell that
would otherwise last longer than 1 round

Quick Cast: Beginning at Sth level, you can cast one spell
each day as a swift action, so long as the casting time of the
spell is 1 standard action or less.

You can use this ability twice per day at 10th level, three

times F sth level, and four times per day at 20th

 

Spell Power (Ex): Starting at 6th level, you can more
easily overcome the spell resistance of any opponent you
successfully injure
with a melee

If you have injured

 

ack

   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  

an opponent with a
melee attack, you gain
a +2 bonus on your

level check to

 

cast

 

overcome spell resis-
tance forthe remainder
of the encounter. This
bonus increases to +3 at
11th level, to +4 at 16th
level, and to +5

at 18th level
