     
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
       

out and focus upon defeating a single opponent. Your spells
thar affect areas are limited mostly to cones, which means
you need to be on or near the front lines 10 get the greatest
effect from them. Even if you come close to being as effective
as a fighter or a sorcerer in his chosen field, you're certainly
not as effective as a fighter und a sorcerer. You'll occasionally
casta spell and strike with your blade in the same round, but
pure spellcasters such as the sorcerer are more able to affect a
crowd of foes or blast a group of opponents, That said, actions
are the D&D game's most fundamental currency, and you'll
be able to take advantage of additional actions in the round, as
you combine spellcasting with melee attacks and eventually
gain the ability to cast any spell you know as a swift action
a number of times per day.

 

Advancement

Like the sorcerer, you face a crucial decision: which spells to
put on your spells known list. The offensive spells on your
spell list fall into three primary categories: touch spells,
single-target ranged spells, and short-range cones. Choose at
least one touch spell, such as shocking grasp, to take advantage
of your arcane channeling ability. You should also take a
movement spell, such as swift expeditious retreat, and an attack-
enhancing spell such as true strike or magic weapon, Future
spell selections can tailor your repertoire to the role you find
yourself most commonly filling, whether it be a frontline
fighter or a finesse caster.

 

‘Assign as many skill points as possible to Concentration,
Knowledge (arcana), and Sense Motive. For feats, take the
Weapon Focus (longsword) feat and also consider sudden
metamagic feats, such as Sudden Silent and Sudden Empower
both from the Complete Arcane supplement

Do not neglect to put some thought into your gear as well
Spend 30% of your wealth on the heaviest armor you can
manage without risking arcane spell failure chance (often
mithral and/or having the twilight special ability). Spend
20% on your primary weapon and 20% on items that improve
your Intelligence, Strength, and saving throws. Spend 20% on

 

wands and scrolls and the remaining 10% on miscellaneous
items and a basic adventuring package.

Your spellcasting and fighting prowess also allow you the
opportunity to enter into prestige classes that are suited to
either melee or spellcasting

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Blaster
Human Duskblade
Ability Scores; Str 15, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8.
Skills: Climb, Concentration, Jump, Knowledge (arcana),
Spelleraft
Languages: Common, Draconic, Elven,
Feat: Point Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (ranged spell),
Weapon; Greataxe (1d12/x3), 3 javelins (1d6, 30 ft.)
Armor: Chain shirt (+4 AC
Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer’s
kit, 10 gp.
Spells Known: 1st—Kelgore's fire bolt, ray of enfeeblement;
0—acid splash, disrupt undead, ray of frost, touch of fatigue,

   

Package 2: The Defender
Dwarf Duskblade

Ability Scores; Ser 15, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 6.

Skills: Concentration, Decipher Script, Knowledge (arcana),
Spelleraft

Languages: Common, Dwarven, Goblin, Orc

Feat; Toughness.

Weapon: Dwarven waraxe (1d10/x3),

Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), light wooden shield (+1 AC).

Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer’s
kit, 22 gp.

Spells Known: 1st—lesser deflect, resist energy; 0—acid
disrupt undead, ray of frost, touch of fatigue.

ash,

   

Package 3: The Skirmisher
Elf Duskblade
Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8,
Skills: Climb, Concentration, Jump, Spellcraft, Spot (cc)
Languages: Common, Draconic, Elven, Sylvan
Feat: Dodge.
Weapons; Glaive (1d10/3), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.)
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC)
Other Gear; Spell component pouch, standard adventurer's
kit, 42 gp.

Spells Known: 1st—swift expeditious retreat, true strike; 0—acid

 

splash, disrupt urutead, ray of frost, touch of fatigue.

DUSKBLADES IN THE WORLD

jour spells cannot penetrate my magical defenses. You are help-
s, wizard!

 

—Last words of Zufir Halag, rakshasa lord

The duskblade combines the best features of the fighter and
wizard. Duskblades make dangerous foes because they have
so many options, magical and martial, available to them every
round; their ability to deliver touch spells through a melee
attack is particularly potent

Daily Life

The life of a duskblade is one of constant training. Each
duskblade must simultaneously be a swordmaster, a deft
spellcaster, and an expert in the esoteric techniques of
arcane channeling. Each of those elements requires years
to master; pur them together, and you have a training regi
men that only the most driven characters can maintain.
The typical duskblade is doing calisthenics in the castle
courtyard before the other characters wake up in the morn-
ing and practicing somatic gestures long after everyone
else has gone to sleep in the evening. Exceptions exist,
of course, but in general duskblades have a reputation as
driven, focused individuals.

Notables
Since duskblades are few and far between, they are natural
loners, wandering far and wide in search of adventures that
will prove a suitable challenge for their unique combination
of abilities. Such is the case with Gwilor the Swift, a wild elf

who adventured in the woodlands of his people for a century
