or so before he committed himself entirely to a crusade
against the duergar and spent the rest of his long career on
extended forays into the underground.

Other duskblades join like-minded adventuring groups
Given their own mix of melee and spellcasting abilities,
duskblades are willing to try unusual combinations, such
as in the case of Taiglin the Fair, a gray elf duskblade who
formed a highly successful party with a human hexblade and
a halfling warmage,

Still others are restless, moving from group to group and
area toarea in search of new challenges. For example, Hallia
Yelebane, a self-taught half-elf duskblade, rarely stays in the
same country more than a month or two. She arrives, seeks
out a suitable challenge for her talents, throws herself into
that adventure, and then moves on. In the course of her
career (brief by elven standards), she has rescued a halfling
metropolis from a cabal of mind flayers who were “farming”
the small humanoids for their brains, teamed with a githzerai
monk to defeat a famed githyanki knight (and claimed his
silver sword as her own), and exposed malenti infilrrators in
an aquatic elf community and thus turned back a sahuagin
invasion, along with other exploits. Hallia’s nickname derives
from her unexpected victory, early in her career, over one of
her fellow duskblades, the elf Yele, who until then had boasted
that he had never been defeated in a one-on-one duel. The
two became fast friends and now make a point to duel at least
once every year.

 

 

Organizations
Because of the elven heritage of the class, many duskblades
gravitate toward the elf lands even if they aren't elves
themselves. Knowledge of duskblade fighting techniques

 

is sufficiently rare that no large company of duskblades
exists—or, if one does, it's a well-kept secret, For centuries,
the class has been sustained by nothing more than solitary
masters who teach duskblade skills and spells to worthy
apprentices, and by those who have taught themselves the
techniques from long-neglected tomes and training manuals.
More recently, some self-taught duskblades have appeared
who master the difficult techniques required by the class
through some innate instinct. No matter what their origin,
all are equals in the eyes of their fellow duskblades.
Duskblades love to test themselves against each othe:
the rare occasions when the paths of two duskblade adventur-
ers happen to cross, they will always make time fora friendly
duel before they part. Given elf life spans, some duskblades
maintain friendly rivalries that can last for centuries,

 

on

NPC Reactions

Few common folk understand who or what duskblades truly
are, and most assume those duskblades they happen to meet
are simply fighters with a bit of sorcerer ability (or vice versa),

Legends speak of elf heroes skilled with both blade and spell,
but these tales do little to inform anyone of the specific abili

ties of the duskblades. Most adventurers react ro duskblades
with some wariness because a duskblade’s combination of
abilities makes it very hard to judge how powerful or capable
such a character is in any situation.

DUSKBLADE LORE
Characters with ranks in Knowledge (arcana) can research
duskblades to learn more abour them. When a character
makesa skill check, read or paraphrase the following, includ-
ing the information from lower DCs.

DC 10: Some elves have the ability to cast arcane spells
while engaged in melee combat; such elves are known as
duskblades

DC 15: Not all duskblades are elves; sometimes members of
other races master the class's special techniques of spelleast-
ing in melee.

DC 20: Duskblades preserve an ancient tradition that enables
them to deliver spell damage through weapon strikes.

DUSKBLADES IN THE GAME

Duskblades fit easily into an ongoing game because of their
small numbers and enigmatic mix of abilities. The presence
of the class is easily explained as your players explore more of
the world—they simply hadn't encountered any duskblades
until now, or had mistaken those they did encounter for
multiclass fighter/wizards, Now that they've discovered this
aspect of the setting, however, they're free to multiclass into
the duskblade class or to begin a new character with levels
only in the new cl

 

 

 

 

SS,

 

Adaptations

One of the more interesting ways to adapt this class to your
campaign is to keep the class abilities more or less the same
but to change the race involved. For example, the githyanki
have a tradition of multiclass fighter/wizards known as
gish; these individuals could easily be reconceived as a gith
duskblade class, Unexpected combinations would be the most
striking, such asa previously unrevealed halfling duskblade
class, After all, few expect halflings to engage in melee except
when making sneak attacks, but when magically boosted
by bull's strength and the like and fighting with oversized
weapons, they could prove unexpectedly deadly against those
who underestimate them—which, afterall, is the
the duskblade class.

 

 

ssence of

Sample Encounter

An encounter with a duskblade should highlight his com-
bined use of spells and melee abilities. The duskblade should
use his spells to force the PCs to close into melee with him,
and then he should batter them with a barrage of touch spells
delivered through his melee attacks. Fighting a villainous
duskblade should be tricky, because he'll use the tools that
are most effective against each character (for example, spells
requiring Reflex saves against the fighter and powerful melee
attacks against the wizard).

EL7: Yele has always been drawn to both physical combat
and the study of magic. As a duskblade, he combines the two
into one seamless fighting style. An adventurer by trade, Yele
could encounter the characters as a friend ora foe. Ifasa foe,
itis because some enemy of the adventurers has encouraged
Yele to go after them for some reason, perhaps to gain some
magical treasure currently in their possession that would
significantly boost either his swordplay or his spellcasting.

 

 

 

 

 
