   
  
 
 
  
 

       

Ifas a friend, Yele could join with the adventurers to search
for some lost piece of arcane lore or because their quest
strikes him as likely to prove an interesting challenge for
his talents

YELE
Male elf duskblade 7
NG Medium humanoid
Init +6
Senses low-light vision; Listen +2, Spot +2
Languages Common, Elven, Gnoll, Sylvan

AC 21, touch 13, flat-footed 19
hp 35 (7 HD)
Immune sleep

Fort +6, Ref +7, Will +6 (+8 against enchantments)

Speed 20 ft. (4 squares)

Melee +1 longsword +11/+6 (1d8+4/19-20)
Base Atk +7; Grp +10

Atk Options arcane channeling®, quick cast*

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 8
SQ able to notice secret or concealed doors, armored
mage*, spell power*
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 7th)
5/day—dancing lights, detect magic, flare, ghost sound,
read magic
Duskblade Spells Known (CL 7th):
2nd (6/day)—ghoul touch (+10 melee touch, DC 14),
scorching ray (+9 ranged touch), swift fly
Ist (7/day)—ray of enfeeblement (+9 ranged touch),
resist energy, shocking grasp (+10 melee touch), swift
expeditious retreat, true strike
0 (6/day)—acid splash, disrupt undead, ray of frost (+9
ranged touch), touch of fatigue (+10 melee touch,
DC 12)
Feats Combat Casting*, Combat Expertise, Improved
Initiative, Lightning Reflexes
Skills Concentration +10 (+14 casting defensively),
Knowledge (arcana) +12, Knowledge (the planes) +12,
Listen +2, Sense Motive +10, Spot +2
Possessions +7 breastplate, +1 light shield, +1 longsword,
cloak of resistance +1, ring of protection +1
*Class features described on page 20

CR7

 

 

Duskblade Spell List

The duskblade's spell list appears below, Spells printed in
this book are marked with an asterisk.

0 Level: acid splash, disrupt undead, ray of frost, touch of
fatigue.

ist Level: Bigby’s tripping hand®, blade of blood®, burning
hands, cause fear, chill touch, color spray, jump, Kelgove's fire bolt
lesser deflect”, magic weapon, obscuring mist, ray of enfeeblement,

 

 

 

SWIFT EXPEDITIOUS RETREAT, SWIFT FLY,
AND SWIFT INVISIBILITY

Three spells on the duskblade’s spell list—swift expeditious re-
treat, swifi fly, and swift invisibilityp—appear in Spell Compendium.
Ifyou do not have that book, treat these spells as their nonswift
versions, except that their casting time is 1 swift action and the
duration of each spell is 1 round.

 

    
   
    
  
    
     
   
    
    
   
  
  

   

resist energy, rouse®, shocking grasp, stand”, swift expeditious retreat,
true strike,

2nd Level: animalistic power®, bear's endurance, Bighy’s strik-
ing fist®, bull's strength, cat's grace, darkvision, deflect®, dimension
hop®, ghoul touch, Melf's acid arrow, scorching vay, see invisibility,
secking ray*, spider climb, stretch weapon”, sure strike*, swift fly,
swift invisibility, touch of idiocy.

3rd Level: crown of might*
touch®, doom scavabs®, ene

 

crown of protection”, dispelling
Y aegis®, energy surge”, greater magic
weapon, halt®, keen edge, protection from energy, ray of exhaustion,

 

regroup”, vampiric touch,

4th Level: Bighy's interposing hand, channeled pyroburst®,
dimension door, dispel magic, enervate, fire shield, phantasmal
killer, shout, toxie weapon®.

sth Level: Bigby’s clenched fist, chain lightning, disintegrate,
hold monster, polar vay, slashing dispel®, sonic shield", waves
of fatigue.

KNIGHT

“1 offer you surrender or an honorable death in battle. The choice
is yours.”

—Archibold the Impetuous

A knight is a proud, skilled melee combatant who fights in
the name of honor and chivalry, A knight relies on more
than a sharp sword and a stout suit of armor to defeat her
foes. Her drive, determination, and fighting spirit allow her
to control the battlefield in ways that others cannot match.
Aknight can challenge an opponent to a duel, calling upon
the foe's pride and ego to force his hand. The knight's talent
with heavy armor, shields, and defensive tactics grant her
the ability to disrupt her foe's plans. Only the most talented
rogues and monks can slip past a knight's defenses to strike at
her allies, An adventuring group with wizards, sorcerers, and
other lightly armored members thrives with the assistance
ofa knight. While the knight keeps enemies occupied, her
allies can use their talents and abilities without fear of attack
or harassment.

The knight class is a great choice if you want to play a tough,
durable melee combatant whose strong personality allows you
to manipulate your foes. Weaker foes cower in fear before you,
while stronger foes move to strike you rather than your allies
when you play on their egos and challenge them to duels.
Your expertise in using armor and carrying a shield allows
you to form an impregnable defensive line. Once you engage
a foe, he has difficulty moving away to threaten your allies,
If you want to be a front-line melee combatant who defends
the rest of the party and manipulates opponents, the knight
isa good choice

MAKING A KNIGHT

A low-level knight is similar to a cross between fighter and
a bard. You have many hit points, a high Armor Class, and
an ability similar to bardic music (the knight's challenge
class feature). You can pick a single foe, usually the one who
poses the most dangerous physical threat, and gain a bonus
on attack rolls and damage rolls against that opponent. You

 
