must pay close attention to the knight's code of conduct,
since it forbids you from taking advantage of several tactically
useful situations.

You excel in combat in a manner similar to a fighter—but
while a fighter can slay a monster, your primary talent is
your ability to keep that monster away from your allies
while you battle it. Ir might take you longer to win the
day, but your many hit points and strong defensive abiliies
help preserve you. Best of all, your defense enables your
allies to function at full capacity without being subject to
the monster's attacks. Any sorcerer or wizard in the party
thrives when you are there to absorb attacks and hold back
your mutual foes

As you advance in level, you gain the ability to dictate
a foe's actions, forcing him to attack you instead of other
targets. Weaker opponents, which typically appear in num-
bers too large for you to hold them all back, quail in terror
when you menace them. Even if they slip past you, they
take penalties when they attack your allies. Your knight's
challenge and shield block class features combine to let
you excel in one-on-one melee, granting you a bonus on
attack rolls, damage rolls, and Armor Class against a single
foe of your choice. If the group faces a mighty villain or a
single, overwhelming physical threat, it's up to you to keep
the monster occupied while your allies cast their spells or
maneuver for position

Abilities: You benefit from a high Charisma score, since
it determines how often you can use some of your abilities
and the save DC of those abilities. A high Constitution allows
you to increase your already impressive hit point toral, thus
bolstering your capacity to defend your allies. Strength
improves your combat abilities, making you more effective
as a front-line character.

Races: The majority of knights are dwarves, humans, and
halfelves. The dwarf's tendency toward order, combined
with that race's militaristic bent, gives rise to fighting orders
dedicated to upholding justice and obeying an honorable code
Dwarf knights also serve as wandering dispensers of justice
between isolated settlements who enforce the rule of law
and protect small clanholds. Humanity, with its sprawling
kingdoms and empires, produces many knights who fight
as much for king and country as for personal honor and
monetary rewards. Some half-elves enter into such service as
well and can rise to high ranks within such orders. Gnomes
and halflings rarely become knights, since the knight's
straightforward code of conduct runs counter to the small
races’ reliance on trickery and clever planning, Few half-ores
have the opportunity to become knights, but when they do
their natural strength serves them well. Elf knights are rare,
since elves prefer freedom and flexibility over the rigid code
of honor all knights must follow.

Alignment: Knights are always lawful, Their dedication
to a code of conduct is but one expression of their devotion
to order. Most knightly orders arise as institutions forged to
protect a kingdom from invaders or to enforce the law against
chaos from within.

While knights value order, they tend in equal numbers
toward good, evil, and neutrality. Lawful good knights see

 

 

 

 

 

order as a tool ro protect the innocent and weak from evil
Lawful evil knights believe that the social order serves to
reward the strong, Lawful neutral knights abhor the destruc-
tion and suffering that chaos can bring and so uphold order
for its own sake.

Starting Gold: 6d4x10 gp (150 gp).

Starting Age: As paladin (PH 109)

CLASS FEATURES

Your class features involve mastering the use of armor and
shields and learning how to manipulate your foes so that
melee combat takes place on your terms, not theirs,

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Knights are profi-
cient with all simple and martial weapons and with all
armor (heavy, medium, and light) and all shields (except
tower shields).

Knight's Challenge: Your dauntless fighting spirit plays.a
majorrole in your fighting style, as importantas the strength
of your arm or the sharpness of your blade. In battle, you
use the force of your personality to challenge your enemies.
You can call out a foe, shouting a challenge that boosts his
confidence, or issue a general challenge thar strikes fear into
weak opponents and compels strong opponents to seek you
out for personal combar. By playing on your enemies’ ego,
you can manipulate your foes.

You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to

2 your class level + your Charisma bonus (minimum once
per day). As you gain levels, you gain a number of options
that you can use in conjunction with this ability.

Even if you and your foes lack a shared language, you can
still effectively communicate through body language, tone,
and certain oaths and challenges you learn from a variety of
different tongues.

Fighting Challenge (Ex): As a swift action, you can issue a
challenge againsta single opponent. The target of this ability
must have an Intelligence of § or higher, have a language of
some sort, and have a CR greater than or equal to your char-
acter level minus 2. If it does not meet these requirements,
ause of this ability is expended without effect

If the target does meet the conditions given above, you
gain a +1 morale bonus on Will saves anda +1 morale bonus
on attack rolls and damage rolls against the target of this
ability. You fight with renewed vigor and energy by placing
your honor and reputation on the line. If your chosen foe
reduces you to 0 or fewer hit points, you lose two uses of your
knight's challenge ability for the day because of the blow to
your ego and confidence from this defeat,

The effect of a fighting challenge lasts for a number of
rounds equal to 5 + your Charisma bonus (if any)

If you are capable of issuing a knight's challenge more
than once per day, you can use this ability more than once
ina single encounter. If your first chosen foe is defeated
or flees the area, you can issue a new challenge to a dif
ferent foe. You cannot switch foes if your original target is
still active.

At7th level, the bonus you gain from this ability increases
to +2, At 13th level, it rises to +3, At 19th level, it increases
to +4

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
