Whether a creature fails or succeeds on its sa

 

ve against
your daunting challenge, it can only be targeted by this effect
once per day.

Bond of Loyalty (Ex); Starting at 16th level, your loyalty
to your comrades endures even in the face of powerful
magic. You can expend one use of your knight's challenge
ability to make an additional saving throw against a mind-
affecting spell or ability. You can use this ability once per
round asa free action and can continue to use it even ifan
opponent is controlling your actions with a mind-affecting
spell or ability.

Loyal Beyond Death (Ex): At 20th level, if you are reduced
to 0 or fewer hit points by an effect that otherwise leaves
your body intact, you can expend one use of your knight's
challenge ability to remain conscious and continue to act for
1 more round before dying, You can use this ability even if
your hit point total is 10 or lower. If your body i
destroyed before your next action (such as by disintegrate

 

s somehow

 

then you cannot act. You can continue to expend uses of your
knight's challenge ability to survive from round to round
until you run out of uses, If you receive healing that leaves
you with more than -10 hit points, you survive (or

 

fall unconscious, as appropriate to your new hit
point total) when you stop using this
ability, Otherwise, death overtakes

 

you when you run out of uses of your
knights challenge ability

il and Lad)

 

   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

Sorra, ka

 

The Knight's Code: You fight not only to defeat your foes
but to prove your honor, demonstrate your fighting ability,
and win renown across the land, The stories that arise from
your deeds are just as important to you as the deeds them-
selves. A good knight hopes that her example encourages
others to lead righteous lives. A neutral knight wishes to
uphold the cause of his liege (if he has one) and win glory
evil knight seeks to win acclaim across the land and incr
her own personal power

The knight's code focuses on fair play: A victory achieved
through pure skill is more difficult, and hence wins more
glory, than one achieved through trickery or guile

    

+ Aknight does not gain a bonus on attack rolls when flank-
ing. You still confer the benefit of a flanking position to
your ally, but you forgo your own +2 bonus on attack rolls.
You to keep the +2 bonus, but doing so violates
your code of honor {see below)

 

an choos

 

+ Aknight never strikes a flat-footed opponent. Instead, you
allow your foe to ready himself before attacking

+ Aknight never deals lethal damage against a helpless foe
You can strike such a foe, bur only with attacks that deal
nonlethal damage.

If you violate any part of this code, you lose one use of
your knight's challenge ability for the day. If your
knight's challenge ability is not available when
you violate the code (for example, if you have
exhausted your uses for the day), you take a—2
penalty on attack rolls and saves for the rest of
that day. Your betrayal of your code of conduct
undermines the foundation of confidence and
honor that drives you forward.

 

While you cleave to your view of hon-
or, chivalry, and pursuit of glory, you
do not force your views on others. You

might chide a rogue for sneaking around

a battlefield, but you recognize (and

perhaps even feel a bit smug about) the

reality that not everyone is fit to follow

the knight's path,

Mounted Combar: Ar 2nd level,
you gain Mounted Combat as a

bonus feat

Shield Block (Ex): Starting
at 2nd level, you excel in using

 

your armor and shield to frus

 

trate your enemy's attacks.
During your action, des-
ignare a single opponent

as the target of this abil-
ity. Your shield bonus

to AC against that foe
increases by 1, as you move
your shield to deflect an incoming blow,
possibly providing just enough pro-
tection to turn a telling swing into a

 

near miss.

S
=
3
3
=
=

 
