 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
   

This shield bonus increases to +2 at 11th level and +3 at
20th level.

Bulwark of Defense (Ex): When you reach 3rd level, an
opponent that begins its turn in your threatened area treats
all the squares that you threaten as difficult terrain. Your
strict vigilance and active defensive maneuvers force your
opponents to move with care

Armor Mastery (Ex): Starting at 4th level, you are able to wear
your armor like a second skin and ignore the standard speed
reduction for wearing medium armor. Starting at 9th level, you
ignore the speed reduction imposed by heavy armor as well

Bonus Feat: At sth level, you gain a bonus feat chosen from
the following list: Animal Affinity, Diehard, Endurance, Great
Fortitude, Iron Will, Quick Draw, Ride-By Attack, Spirited
Charge, Trample, or Weapon Focus (lance), You muststill meet
any prerequisites for the feat. You gain an additional bonus
feat from this list at 10th level and again at 15th level.

Vigilant Defender (Ex): Starting at Sth level, you stand
your ground against all enemies, warding the spot where
you make your stand to prevent foes from slipping past and
attacking those you protect. If an opponent attempts to use
the Tumble skill to move through your threatened area or your
space without provoking attacks of opportunity, the Tumble
check DC to avoid your attacks of opportunity increases by
an amount equal to your class level.

Shield Ally (Ex): Starting ar 6th level, as an immediate
action you can opt to absorb part of the damage dealt to an
adjacent ally. Each time this ally takes damage from a physical
attack before your next turn, you can take half this damage
on yourself. The target takes the other halfas normal, Youcan
only absorb damage from physical melee attacks and ranged
attacks, such as an incoming arrow or a blow from a sword,
not from spells and other effects.

Improved Shield Ally (Ex): Ar {4th level, your ability
to absorb damage increases. Once per round you can absorb
all the damage from a single attack directed against an
adjacent ally. In addition, you continue to absorb half the
damage from other physical attacks on an adjacent ally, if
you so choose. You must decide whether to use this ability
after the attacker determines that an arts

 

 

 

k has succeeded
but before he rolls damage

Impetuous Endurance (Ex): Starting at 17th level, your
fighting spirit enables you to push your body beyond the
normal limits of endurance. You no longer automatically fail
a saving throw on a roll of 1, You might still fail the save if
your result fails to equal or beat the DC.

PLAYING A KNIGHT

Asa knight, you are driven to prove your abilities, showcase
the code of chivalry as a proper way to live, and defend your
allies. You are impetuous and brave, never backing down from
achallenge. When you face a mighty foe, you take a moment
to call out a challenge to him, salute his fighting ability, or
list his crimes that you seek to avenge.

Religion
Knights value order and honor in all things. They worship
lawful gods, though whether their parrons are good, neutral,

 

    
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

or evil depends solely on the knight's preferences. Good
knights favor Heironeous, while neutral ones follow St
Cuthbert. Evil knights, if they venerate a god, offer prayers
to Hextor. Knights of Heironeous and Hextor are renowned
for the epic duels they have fought against each other.
Opposing armies sometimes halt their advance to allow
these sworn enemies to duel to the death before th
the battle is joined.

rest of

 

Other Classes
You respect paladins for their skill in combat and devotion to
acode of conduct, although their path is somewhat different
from your own. You see wizards, sorcerers, clerics, and bards
as useful allies who should stay back away from combat; indi-
vidual knights sometimes travel partnered with a member of
one of these classes. Most knights consider barbarians to be
crazed lunatics who lack the honor, self-control, and training
to fight in a proper civilized manner, yet a skilled barbarian
can earn a knight's grudging respect through deeds in battle,
You have little regard for rogues, beguilers, or others who rely
on stealth or deceit. In general, you have no feeling one way
or the other toward druids, monks, and rangers. You distrust
the duskblade's mix of melee combat and spellcasting but can
empathize with the dragon shaman’s devotion to his totem

 

dragon, though you might be wary of particular shamans
(those devoted to chaotic dragons). In general, you feel protec-
tive (but with a touch of condescension) toward adventurers
who cannot handle heavy armor and weapons.

Combat

You serve two basic roles in battle. You excel at dominaring
the field of battle, since your defensive abilities make it dif
ficult for opponents to move past you and strike yulnerable
members of your party. You believe that the best way to face
an enemy is to challenge him to an honorable duel and kill
him fair and square, claimingall the glory for yourself. When
faced with multiple foes, you can strike fear into some and
goad others into attacking you rather than yourallies. Youare
the sorcerer's, wizard's, or bard's best friend. Your command-
ing presence draws attacks to you, while your hit points and
heavy armor make you ideally suited to absorb blows. While
you are engaging foes in combat, your allies can use their
spells and special abilities without interference.

 

Advancement
When looking at feats to select as you gain levels, you have
two basic paths. You can focus on your fighting skill, or
you can attempt to expand your capabilities to serve as the
party's spokesman. The former option is best when you are
the group's primary combat specialist. If the party includes
a barbarian, paladin, fighter, ranger, or duskblade, you can
afford to dabble in feats that improve your Charisma-based
skills, Although Diplomacy is not a class skill for you, the
Skill Focus fear combined with your superior Charisma and
a few cross-class ranks makes you a serviceable emissary.
When it comes to combat feats, look to ones that improve
your ability to deal damage. Your class features already
enhance your defense, making feats such as Power Attack

 

   

 

  
