Weapon Focus, and so forth excellent options to boost your
offense. Alternatively, you could focus on crippling your
foe's ability to deal damage. Combat Expertise combined
with Improved Disarm and Improved Trip form a potent
combo. When you lure a foe into attacking you, you can pluck
his weapon from his hand or knock him to the ground, In
either case, your opponent is neutralized as a threat to you
or your allies.

Improved Initiative is a critically important feat, since it
allows you to act first, move forward, and defend your allies
The sooner you find a place at the front line, the longer you
can hold back the monsters.

STARTING PACKAGES

Package 1: The Cavalier
Human Knight
Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 14
skills: Diplomacy, Knowledge (nobility and royalty), Ride.
Feats; Mounted Combat, Skill Focus (Ride).
Weapons: Lance (1d8/«3), longsword (1d8/19-20), three
javelins (1d6, 30 ft.).
Armor: Chain shirt (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC).
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 11 gp.

 

 

 

Package 2: The Defender
Dwarf Knight
Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 12, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 12,
Skills: Diplomacy, Ride
Feat: Shield Specialization (heavy),
Weapons: Dwarven waraxe (1d10/x3), warhammer (1d8/x3),
5 javelins (1d6, 30 ft.)
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy steel shield (+2 AC).
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 18 gp.

  

 

 

   

Package 3: The Destroyer

Half-Ore Knight
Ability Scores: Str 16, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 8, Wis 8, Cl
Skill: Intimidate.
Feat; Power Attack.
Weapons: Battleaxe (1d8/x3), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft),
Armor; Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy steel shield (+2 AC)
Other Gear: Standard adventurer’s kit, 50 gp.

KNIGHTS IN THE WORLD

“Like having a knight in front of me ina fight. He holds the line

 

a 13,

 

 

and allows me to work my spells in peace, Best of all, so long as
he has his back to me I can't hear him pratiling on about honor,
strength, and chivalry.”

—Vaarlis Runespeaker, mage-initiare of Wee Jas

The concept of the knight, or cavalier, or chevalier has arisen
in many cultures thar used mounted warriors in their armies
‘Typically, knights were members of the rich, land-owning
upper class who could afford to buy and maintain heavy
armor and a horse, Such individuals served an elite role in
the military not only for their fighting talents and ability to
tide over and smash through infantry who lacked polearms
bur also for their social standing, For the historical knight

 

his status asa tich landowner was the basis of his superiority
to others, Legend transformed the concept of the knight to
focus on one who sets forth searching for deeds that will win
him glory, drawing on his code of conduct and charismatic
personality to defeat his enemies. Since a character who
owns land and sits on a fortune in gold makes for a poor
adventurer ina traditional D&D game, the knight character
class focuses on the concept of a heavily armored melee
combatant who fights according to a strict code of conduct
Fidelity to that code grants the knight the confidence and
fighting spirit to excel on the battlefield and hence the glory
he or she seeks.

Daily Life

A knight adventures to prove her skill at arms, to advance
the cause of whatever lord she might serve, and to further
her own aims. She rides forth from her lord's castle to right
wrongs, quest in her lord’s name, and prove herself worthy
of knighthood, By actively seeking fame, glory, and acclaim,
the knight brings praise and respect to the code of honor
thar she fights under.

Some knights are lone wanderers with neither castle nor
king. A bloody war might leave a knight without a master.
Homeless and with little more than her armor and weapons,
this knight adventures to further the cause she still holds
dear. She could work to bring down the enemies who defeated
her lord or attempt to do as much good across the land as
possible, winning glory all the while. She might seek for a
new cause worthy of her devotion. The knight's order might
fall, burt the concepts of honor and chivalry endure so long
as one knight holds them dear.

Other knights are similar to paladins in that they place
their faith in a cause, though for a knight this cause is
rooted in the world rather than a divine power. A knight
might fight against oppression and brutality in all its forms,
such as when a dwarf knight ventures into the underground
with his companions on a crusade to defeat drow, duergar,
and other horrors before they can threaten the surface,
Such a knight doesn't need a lord or an order. All he needs
is a sharp sword, a stout shield, and an indomitable belief
in his cause.

The knight of the D&D game iss wanderer who hunts
down the red dragon that has despoiled the countryside, or
the hero who mans the walls and rallies the town guard when
a horde of orcs appears on the horizon. The knight fights for
acause, and it matters not whether that cause is upholding
the crown or a ceaseless desire to bring justice and hope to
the land.

Notables

Knights gain notoriety for their deeds, whether triumphs in
combat or selfless acts of great honor. Many an adventurer
grew up on stories such as thar of Archibold the Imperuous,
who after the defeat of his liege’s army stood alone to block
pursuit on a narrow bridge while his allies withdrew to safery.
The bards claim that Sir Archibold slew more than a hundred
hobgoblins before he finally fell, by which time his allies had
reached the safety of a nearby fortress.

 
