   
   
  

      

Another legend tells of Lady Artis, an evil but brave
knight who drove off a rampaging red dragon thar had
terrorized the region, not from any beneficence toward the
inhabitants but to win the fame of defeating a foe no one
else dared face

Organizations
Knights often band together into orders of knighthood, and
many of these organizations have storied histories. Knightly
orders typically allow their members to spend much of their
time on individual quests, requiring only thar the knight
live by the code of the order and be willing to rerurn to the
order's headquarters when called upon, Knightly orders
have a proud tradition of using heraldic symbols to identify
themselves, and knights who belong to the order often
carry these symbols on their shields and armor to identify
their affiliation.

 

NPC Reactions

Individuals react 1o knights based on their previous int
tions with other members of the class, A heroic knight meets
stony silence and suspicion in a land where evil knights
oppress the poor. By the same token, a villainous knight
finds that folk who assume knights are chivalrous, fair,
and honorable are quick to trust her and willing to believe
the best about her. Such trust might indeed bring out the
best in her, or it might lead swiftly co disaster, depending
on the knight.

‘A knight who has retired from adventuring typically
acquires some position of authority, with commensurate
political power, whether as general, king's champion, or ruler
af some city or outpost. People's opinions of knights are thus
often the same as their views of authority in general.

KNIGHT LORE

Characters with ranks in Knowledge (nobility and royalty)
can research knights to learn more about them. When a char-
acter makes a skill check, read or paraphrase the following,
including the information from lower L

DC 10: Knights are skilled mounted fighters who special-
ize in defensive combat.

 

 

 

 

DC 15: Knights are combat-oriented characters adept at
protecting their companions and stopping foes from getting
past them. They follow a strict code of honor.

DC 20: Knights are masters of armor and shield use. They
can lure foes into one-on-one combat through sheer force
of will

KNIGHTS IN THE GAME

Because of their obvious place in real-world history, knights
fit well into any campaign with a medieval setting, The class
can be available to characters of almost any race or origin
or you can tie the class to a specific kingdom or group of
cultures in your campaign world, Either way, the knight
provides an exciting option for players interested in a melee-
oriented character capable of holding a line of combat and
really protecting her allies, as well as challenging monsters
in single combat,

   
   
    
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 

   

Adaptation
This class can fit in a campaign in many ways—to serve a
specific plot need, you can tie its history toa race or add a con-
nection to a mysterious organization. The class description
assumes that many races and cultures produce knights, but in
your world perhaps only lawful societies might field knights
as part of their armed forces, creating an instantand flavorful
difference between lawful and chaotic culture groups. If you
take this route, create a chaotic-oriented group of hexblades,
rangers, or scouts who oppose the order of knights,

 

 

Sample Encounter
A knight can be encountered anywhere her quest for glory
might take her: at the head of an enemy army, on a lone
mission into the underground, or simply wandering the
countryside looking for suitable challenges. A knight often
appears partnered with an arcane or divine spellcaster, since
the knight's class features work best in conjunction with an
unarmored or lightly armored partner.
EL7: Lady Sorta adheres to the code of knighthood for one
son; it seems the fastest way to gain power in a world where
those of common birth lack opportunity. She could make a
temporary ally or suitable antagonist for any adventuring
group, perhaps first appearing as an ally in one adventure and
then again later in another as an antagonist. In the latter case,
she is likely to be found serving as the personal bodyguard
of a powerful evil spellcaster.

 
 

re:

Lapy SorRA
Female human knight 7
LE Medium humanoid
Init +5; Senses Listen +0, Spot +0
Languages Common
AC 21, touch 12, flat-footed 20; shield bloc!
hp 65 (7 HD)
Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +8
Speed 30 ft. (6 squares)
Melee +1 longsword +11/+6 (1d8+4/19-20)
Base Atk +7; Grp +10
Atk Options Cleave, Power Attack, fighting challenge* +2,
ettle
16, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 12
SQ armor mastery, knight's challenge* 4/day, knight's
code®, shield ally*, vigilant defender*, wall of steel*
Feats Cleave, Great Fortitude", Improved Initiative, Iron Will
Mounted Combat®, Power Attack
Skills Handle Animal +11, Intimidate +11
Possessions +1 breastplate, +] heavy shield, +1 longsword,
cloak of resistance +1, ring of protection +7
*Class features described on pages 25-28

EX-KNIGHTS

A knight who is no longer lawful loses the benefits of her
knight's challenge ability. As a result, she cannot use class
features that require her to expend uses of the knight's
challenge ability, such as fighting challenge, test of mettle
and call to battle, She no longer takes penalties for violating
her code of conducr.

CR7

 

 

A knight can regain her status by returning to a lawful
alignment
