monster, a nature spirit, or an ancestor. Your tribal shaman
convinced you that the application of such a painful and
encompassing (and disfiguring!) tattoo would allow you to
more easily contact the spirit world and gain the power of
the spirit or animal represented by the mask. Alternatively,
you were shunned or cast out by your tribe. The tattoo cover-
ing your face forever marks you as an outcast to your tribe,
unworthy to associate with the people of your birth

Naga: Instead of snakes spiraling up your arms, you have
tattooed human-headed nagas! The nagas represent anarchy
and indicate to others who understand the symbol that you
follow no law but your own, civilization be damned.

Snake: Tattooed snakes coil around your upper arms, simple
but colorful. Their heads point toward your head, imparting
their wisdom to you in spirit, if not in voice.

Spider: On the palm of one of your hands, hidden in normal
dealings with strangers, the tattoo of a night-dark spider lurks
with five of its legs extending up onto the undersides of your
fingers. To you (and others familiar with the symbology), the
spider represents trickery and even death, though others
might say treachery instead of trickery. When engaged in
trickery (or treachery), it is your habit to reveal your open
palm to the victim of your trick (or double-cross) as the nature
of your action becomes apparent to them.

Sun Rays: On the backs of your hands are tattooed the long
rays of the golden sun. Just like you can count on the sun rising
daily, people can count on you, as this tattoo signifies.

Toad: You believe that this minor tattoo you wear on one
shoulder helps protect you from witchcraft, evil spells, and
demonic influences.

BERSERKER STRENGTH

The decision of when to rage is one of the toughest faced by
a barbarian. Selecting the berserker strength class feature
in place of rage removes the need for this often complicated
tactical decision, replacing it with an automatically activated
boost to your combat prowess and durability, In short, when
the going gets tough, you get tougher.

Level: 1st.

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
rage (or any later improvements to that class feature).

 

  

 

 

 

BARBARIAN BATTLECRIES

Below are a few battle cries you enjoy screaming out to mark
the beginning of a conflict, or into an enemy's face in the midst
of battle

[a shriek like a high-pitched yowl of a wildcat}
Blood for the Blood God!

Break the bones, hew the flesh!

Death to the city dwellers!

For the North! [or your tribe name]

Scream your last!

Your guts for a garter!

Your skin for a shawl!

Your skull for a cup!

 

Benefit: Whenever your current hit point total is below $
our barbarian level, your berserker strength automatically
activates. You gain a +4 bonus to your Strength score, a +2
bonus on saves, damage reduction 2/—, and a -2 penalty to
your AC. The damage reduction granted by berserker strength
stacks with any similar kind of damage reduction.

There is no limit to the number of times per day your
berserker strength can activate. While berserker strength is
active, you have the same limitation on actions as a barbarian
in rage (PH 25). You cannot voluntarily end your berserker
strength, although you automatically drop out of it while
unconscious, helpless, or (most likely) when you receive heal-
ing to bring your current hit points above the threshold.

Ar 1ith level (or if you would gain the greater rage class
feature from any class), your berserker strength improves
instead. The bonus to your Strength score improves to +6,
your bonus on saves improves to +3, and you gain damage
reduction 3/— (or your existing damage reduction of the
same kind improves by 3).

At 20th level (or if you would gain the mighty rage class
feature from any class), your berserker strength instead
improves again. The bonus to your Strength score improves to
+8, your bonus on saves improves ta +4, and you gain damage
reduction 4/— (or your existing damage reduction of the same
kind improves by 4),

Any effect that would normally apply only during your
rage applies whenever your berserker strength is active.

STARTING PACKAGES

Package 1: The Destroyer

Half-Ore Barbarian
Ability Scores: Str 17, Dex 13, Con 14, Inr 8, Wis 12, Cha 6.
skills: Climb, Jump, Swim
Feat: Power Attack.
Weapons: Greataxe (1d12/x3), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.).
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC)
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 9 gp.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

Package 2: The Hunter
Elf Barbarian
Abilily Scores: Str 15, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 8.
Shills: Climb, Handle Animal, Listen, Survival
Feat: Track,
Weapons: Battleaxe (1d8/x3), shortbow with 20 arrows
(1d6/19—20, 60 ft).
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC), heavy steel shield
(+2 AC
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 1 gp.

 

Package 3: The Whirlwind
Human Barbarian
Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8.
Skills: Climb, Intimidate, Jump, Listen, Swim.
Feat: Two-Weapon Fighting, Weapon Focus (kukri).
Weapons: Two kukris (1d4/18-20), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.).
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC).
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 4 gp.

 

 
