 
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
       

You roam the bright kingdoms and less savory regions of the
world alike, amassing lore, negotiating tricky deals, scouring,
gambling, spying, relaying messages, and telling epic stories.
You work magic with your music, influencing the hearts and
minds of both friends and foes. In the end, the best stories
end up being about you.

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Artisan, Drifter, Mariner,
Noble Scion.

Suggested Personality Archetyp

 

 

(choose one): Agent, Daredevil,
Explorer, Innocent, Mercenary, Orphan, Rebel, Renegade,
Royalty, Trickster, Wanderer.

HARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could spply
to you.

Military Historian: This character theme requires you
to have at least one rank in Knowledge (history). You are a
student of conflict, an expert on the subject of the famous
bartles between prehistoric tribes, ancient militaries, and
modern armies between kings and necromancer.

Now and then, you regale your friends with snippets of
these histories. You find itall so interesting that you know
everyone else would feel the same way, if only they were
exposed to the sagas.

“We could learn something from the Battle of Rakdar, fought
three hundred years ago, When the army of King Yria encoun-
tered an allied army of eight kings at Rakdar, if was utterly
decimated by the much larger force. King Yria learned the value
of alliances then.”

“The Battle of Ceschremi sent ten thousand warriors to their

 

graves, because r

 

nforcements didn't arrive when Emperor Drezzar
erals had taken the money meant to

 

ordered. Over the years, his ge
keep reinforcements at the ready and instead bought fine mansions
for themselves in the countryside. Those were later burned by the
Ceschremi army, which advanced unopposed.”

Negotiator: In some groups, your diplomatic skills will
exceed those of all your friends. To be a good negotiator. you
must be fair, but stern, While the Diplomacy skill provides
the mechanical resolution of a scene, DMs enjoy hearing the
gist of your negotiating points as a precursor to attempting
the skill chee

Really, it’s all about the “spin.” With the proper spin, even
a three-day-dead ore can be made to sound enticing. For
example, if you are attempting to explain to a city official
why your group was responsible for so much destruction in
a recent street altercation, you might say:

“Your honor,

 

 

isidey the devastation that would have otherwise

 

been wrought. Consider the buildings unburnt, lives saved, and
money still safely in coffers precisely because of our actions!

On the other hand, if you are trying to trade in an unneeded
magic weapon for some other trifle that you or a
prefer, try:

riend would

  

“Your eyes miss nothing, madam, but of course you couldn't know
that this blade was once the boyhood dagger of the playwright
Isheuan. Indeed, his honeyed words ave a delight to all. And this
blade was grasped in that same hand that also takes so ably to the
pen. Consider its value now!"

 

   

Riddlemaster: You absorb stories, but you collect riddles.
A good riddle is a treasure in itself, and “a thorough know!
edge of riddles keeps the intellect flexible and sharp,” as you
are fond of saying. More than that, a knowledge of riddles can
prove useful in negotiations with certain enigmatic beasts,
prideful kings, or any foe whose conceit compels it to a
to test of riddles to resolve a dispute

   

gree

Every bard knows at least a few riddles. Beyond these
beginning few, you are constantly on the lookout for more,
whether through research in dusty tomes, or by riddling with
strangers and friends, ally or foe, even when there is nothing
at stake. In this way, you are able to collect ever more riddles
for your growing repertoire. You are also adroit at creating
your own riddles

How To Write A Riddle: Use three rules when writing
riddle.

 

 

1) Pick an word or phrase as the answer to your riddle.
2) Turn the word ot phrase over and over in your head,
the-

 

 

  

free-associating and making note of any unusual or of
wall idea that comes to mind.

3) Come up with clues about these ideas you've just
generated

Put itall together, tidy it up, and you might have just created
a riddle thar will last the ages.

Spy: Even if you don’t have a commission, you can play up the
fact that you might be working under official authority—after

 

all, you've (supposedly) done so in the past.

Purchase a leather-bound journal (in game), and keep
copious notes about all your surroundings, exploits, and
the doings of your acquaintances, At some later point, your
habits could reveal an important clue that was missed earlier.
To prevent anyone else from gleaning the same information,
you keep this journal in a cipher.

Ciphers: A cipher is a way to record information in such a
way tharit is obscured to those without special knowledge. In
most cases, this special knowledge is a key (for simple ciphers)
that provides the necessary insight for rearranging letters into
their proper order or otherwise rendering a message legible.

If you end up actually acting as a spy for a merchant guild,
temple, or other organization, you can pass a note every few
sessions to the DM using a simple cipher—assuming the DM
aids you in this endeavor.

One of the simplest ciphers replaces each letter of the alphabet
with a different letter that is a certain number of letters away.
For instance, if the cipher is “letter +1” (replace each letter
with the one that follows it in the alphabet), then the message
“) bn b tqz,” when decrypted, reads “I am a spy."

Storyteller: You are a repository of stories both ancient and
contemporary. From the wealth of stories at your disposal,
the lessons of history and adages of past bards and sages are
at your fingertips. Use this knowledge to your advantage
when you wish to influence an ally’s (or foe's) opinion about
something, such asa plan of action or a proposed agreement.
By preceding your point with a reference to a story (real or
made up), you lend additional weight to the point you make
immediately afterward. Most sentient creatures feel the
pressure of precedent of others’ past experience on a similar
matter, even if you've invented the story on the spot (as long

 

 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
