   
  
    
  
 
    
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
     
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
         
       
 
  

as they don't know you're making it up). Of course, it's better
if you actually have a story, ora piece of history told asa story,
in mind before you attempt this tactic,

For example, when confronted with a particular thorny
problem, especially if you see a solution, stroke your chin
and say:

 

This reminds me of the time Prince Voltred tried to enter his

falcon in the archery contest. Funny thing about that.
Or, when you disagree with a conclusion, try:

The slave Medricar thought the same thing, when he once
escaped his master to live in the forest. He figured he could survive
on the wild herbs and honey he would find. Good thing he changed
his mind,

Or, when you believe not enough forethought has gone
into an ally's proposed course of action:

“Might work, yes, but you remember Darvn, who rushed into
the Cave of the Yellow Skull? If he had just watched a little longer
he'd have seen the giant sleeping behind the ston

BARDIC KNACK

Wandering bards learn more mundane skills and less esoteric
knowledge on their travels. If you select this class feature,
you have done a little bit of everything; maybe you spent a
few months asa wilderness guide, and you also had a cousin
in an ambassador's retinue who regaled you with tales of

 

 

courtly intrigue.

The bardic knack class feature makes you more capable of
accomplishing simple tasks with a wide variety of skills. You
don't need to dabble in noncritical skills (unless you want
to be considered trained in their use), freeing up your skill
points to focus on a small range of crucial skills

Level: 1st

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
bardic knowledge

Benefit: When making any skill check, you can use 1/2
your bard level (rounded up) in place of the number of ranks
you have in the skill (even if that number is 0),

For example, a sth-level bard would have the equivalent of
3 ranks in Appraise, Balance, Bluff, and so on (but only for
the purpose of making skill checks).

You can't take 100n checks when you use bardic knack
(to take 10 you have to use your actual ranks), If the
skill doesn't allow untrained checks, you must
have at least 1 actual rank
to attempt the
check =

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1; The Controller
Half-Elf Bard

Ability Scores: Str 10, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 8, Cha 15.
skills: Bluff, Diplomacy, Disguise, Gather Informa-
tion, Knowledge (local), Perform
Languages; Common, Elven, C
Feat: Skill Focus (Perform).
Weapons: Longsword (1d8/19-20), shortbow with 20 arrows
(1d6/x3, 60 ft.)

 

nse Motive.

 

      

Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC)

Other Gear: Common musical instrument, spell component
pouch, standard adventurer’s kit, 9 gp.

Spells Known: O—detect magic, lullaby, mage hand, prestidigitation.

Package 2: The Problem Solver
Gnome Bard

Ability Scores; Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 15.

Skills: Bluff, Concentration, Craft (alchemy), Listen, Per-
form, Spellcraft, Use Magic Device,

Languages: Common, Gnome, Goblin.

Feat: Arcane Flourish*

Weapons: Longsword (1d6/19-20), shortbow with 20 arrows
1d4/x3, 60 ft.)

Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC),

Other Gear: Common musical instrument, spell component
pouch, standard adventurer's kit, 4 gp.

 

 

   

Spells Known; 0—dancing lights, detect magic, mage hand,
read magic

Package 3: The Vanguard
Human Bard

Ability Scores: Str 10, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 8, Cha 15,

Skills: Concentration, Diplomacy, Escape Artist, Listen,
Perform, Spot, Tumble.

Languages: Common, Draconic

Feats: Combat Expertise, Still Spell

Weapons: Rapier ({d6/18—20), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.)
mor: Studded leather (+3 AC), light wooden shield (+1
5% arcane spell failure)

 

Other Gear: Common musical instrument, spell compo-
nent pouch, standard adventurers
kir, 22 gp.
Spells Known: 0O—detect
magic, ghost sound, light,
message.

, Herald
High Crown

Gimb

 

pape 'S 4 MIL
