 
 

—___________ CLERIC

You are a representative of an almighty deity’s authority in the
mortal world. You give thanks daily to the good fortune that
putyou in such an enviable position, You know firsthand that
the places of natural beauty, the structure of societies, and
even existential cosmic laws would falterand perhaps collapse
altogether without divine influence and intervention.

However, deities work through agencies other than mere
divine decree, In fact, gods prefer to work through interme
diaries such as you when possible, You use the power of your
deity to make your god's will manifest. In doing so, your lot
improves, as you are raised slowly up in the eyes of the deity you
serve with each deed you accomplish in your god's name

Suggested Back
Scion.

 

rounds (choose one); Artisan, Ascetic, Noble

 

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose onc): Agent, Compan-
ion, Crusader, Innocent, Leader, Martyr, Orphan, Prophet
Royalty, Sage, Seeker, Simple Soul, Theorist

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character
themes could apply to you

Giver of Blessings: Since you are an
instrument of your deity’s will, you of

  
 

ten find yourself (along with your

= companions) in tight spaces, In
= suchcircumstances, itis custom-
& ary for you to bless yourself

3 and your companions with

Ss your god's beneficence im

mediately prior to taking
desperate action.

Keeping such blessings
to a minimum number of
words isa good idea, given that
youare usually only moved to
give a blessing when circum-
stances are dire,

You are partial to one or
more of the following blessings
(substituting your deity's name
for Pelor

 

“Refresh and gladden our
spirits
Purify our hearts.
Ilumine our powers.
We lay our hope in Pelor’s hands.”

“Bless us, oh Pelor,

and these thy weapons which

we are about to deploy in thy name,
through your beneficence.”

"We humbly beseech you from the bottom of

our hearts to succor us in our necessity

Missionary: You believe without question that others would
benefit by conversion to the worship of your deity. You have taken

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

that our purposes are pure.

 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
    
     

itupon yor

 

rself to be a propagator of your religion, and draw
upon one of the following methods of proselytization

Conversion through Exhortation; You are a strident evangelist
who exhorts others to consider your deity’s worship at every
opportunity. For instance, whenever you heal a companion,
you murmur

“Through Pelor’s grace, be healed. If your belief wer
much greater would the relief from y

 

‘greater, how

 

ur wounds be?

On the other hand, when smiting enemies, you scream
regardless of whether your friends have yet converted

"When you cross me, you cross the great god Pelor and earn his
wrath, and the wrath of all his disciples!"

Conv

 

 

rsion by Example: You never exhort your companions
to convert, but instead serve your deity lovingly and well. You
heal your companions at need, smite enemies, and accomplish
other duties required by the company you keep.

After months of showing how the grace of Pelor helps you

 

through example, you are ready
to choose your moment. At
some point your aid, heal
ing prayer, or other good
work will come at just the
precise moment to save or re-
new one of your companions
Thisis the time to whisper per
suasively in his or her ear:
Consider what Pelor has done for
you—it is through his aid that 1 have aided
you. If you say so now, L will tell you more of
Pelor later.”
In this way, you can slowly bring one or
more of your companions into the fold.
Prayerful: You know that
maintaining the channels of
communication between

  

yourself and your deity is
necessary, not just when your
god grants your spells, but all
day through, However, the ad-
venturing life being what itis,
your prayers are short and sweet,
and you drop them into conver-
sation when possible.

For instance, whenever
you make a particularly force-
ful assertion, you append one

of the following phrases (substi-
tuting your deity’s name for Pelor)
«ts Pelor’s grace demands,"

just as Pelor sweeps aside foes.”

 

so that Pelor may smile upon 1

 

in Pelor’s name, let it be so,"
in this we ask Pelor’s aid,”

 

and in so doing we will be instruments of Pelor’s peace.”
and in this we shall have Pelor’s divine aid.”
for behold, Pelor has smiled on us from the very beginning

and may all sin in Pelor’s eyes be washed from our souls, so
