Sermonizer: You are familiar with the trials and travails
of your deity, especially if your god or one of his saints or
other associated entities was forced to undergo a great trial
to reach a higher spiritual understanding or vision.

You are given to dropping in bits and pieces of this story
prior to expressing your point. You hope that by being made
aware of holy example, your companions will see the wisdom
of your words.

For instance, you might say as part of your arguments
(substituting your deity’s name for Pelor):

“... but as the One Hundred Writs of Pelor tell us...
lest we suffer as Pelor suffered in his many trials
but even the purest hearts can fall. Remember Eyria, the
devoted paladin of Pelo? Renowned for her piety and courage,
she was slain in battle with a death knight, but in her destruction
she was victorious.”

 

 

 

long before you were born and long after you've become but
dust, Pelor’s disciples will continue their good works and see to it
that Pelor’s will is accomplished,

Soldier of Divinity: You stand a little closer to the paladin
ideal than other clerics. You disdain blessings and prayers,
and you avoid healing your compatriots except in the direst
of circumstances, Instead, you select your spells, feats, and
magic items so that your deity’s divine grace directly infuses
your strength at arms and defense, If you pray for just the
right combination of aid, your ability to fight your god's
bartles comes close to equaling any warrior’s combat ability,
and in some cases exceeds those capabilities.

Of course, being a soldier of your deity doesn't mean that
you can't be prayerful (see above), though your pleas to your
god take on a much more military context

“Move, infidel, or feel divine wrath.”

“Kill them all, Pelor commands it!"

SPONTANEOUS DOMAIN CASTING

Afiera while, clerics can start looking very similar. Even with a
variety of domains to choose from, domain spells take up such
asmall portion of the average cleric's repertoire that they don't
have much effect on the overall feel of the character. With spon-
taneous domain casting, though, your domain choice becomes
amore important element of yout character. You won't be able
to provide as much healing to your party asa typical cleric, but
the ability to prepare cure or inflict spells in your domain spell
slots keeps you from falling too far behind in that area,

Level: Ist.

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
the ability to spontaneously convert prepared spells into cure
or inflict spells.

Benefit: You can convert stored spell energy into the spells
of one of your domains, Pick one of your two domains, You can
“lose” any prepared spell (other than a domain spell) to cast any
spell of the same level or lower on that domain list. Your choice
ispermanent unless an alignment change, deiry change, orother
dramatic event leaves you incapable of accessing the domain.

In addition, when preparing spells you can choose to fill
any orall of your domain spell slots with either cure or inflict
spells (depending on whether you would normally convert
prepared spells to cure or inflict spells) of the same level.

 

   

   

 

Example: Crucius is a cleric of Heironeous with the Good
and War domains. At tst level, he chooses to spontaneously
cast War domain spells. Thereafter, he can lose a prepared
ist-level spell to cast magic weapon, a prepared 2nd-level spell
to cast spiritual weapon (or magic weapon), and so on. Further-
more, in each domain spell slot he can prepare a spell from
the Good domain, a spell from the War domain, ora cure spell
of the same level.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Defender
Dwarf Cleric of Moradin
Ability Scores: Str 12, Dex 8, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 11.
Skills: Concentration, Knowledge (religion).
Feat; Improved Turning.
Weapons: Morningstar (1d8), light crossbow with 20 bolts
(1d8/19-20, 80 ft.).
Armor; Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC).
Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer's
kit, wooden holy symbol, 2 gp.
Class Features; Channels positive energy; Good and Protec-
tion domains.

 

Spells Prepared: 1st—command, protection from evil®, shield of
faith; 0—detect magic, light, resistance.
D; Domain spell.

Package 2: The Destroyer
Half-Ore Cleric of Heironcous
Ability Scores: Str 16, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 11.
Skill: Concentration.
Feats: Divine Justice*, Martial Weapon Proficiency (long-
sword), Weapon Focus (longsword).
Weapons: Longsword (1d8/19-20), 2? javelins (1d6, 20 ft.).
Armor; Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC).
Other Gear; Spell component pouch, standard adventurer’s
kit, wooden holy symbol, 5 gp.
Class Features: Channels positive energy; Good and War
(longsword) domains.
Spells Prepared: 1st—bless, divine favor, magic weapon”;
O—guidance, resistance, virtue.

D: Domain spell.

  

Package 3: The Healer
Himan Cleric of Pelor

Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 8, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 13.

Skills: Concentration, Diplomacy, Heal.

Feats: Combat Casting, Sacred Healing”.

Weapons; Longspear (1d8/x3), light crossbow with 20 bolts
(1d8/19-20, 80 ft.).
: Scale mail (+4 AC),
pell component pouch, standard adventurer's
kit, wooden holy symbol, 12 gp.

Class Features: Channels positive energy; Healing and
Sun domains.

Spells Prepared: 1st-—enduve elements", protection from evil,
sanctuary; O—detect magic, detect poison, light.

D: Domain spell

 

 

 

 

 
