     

—_ DRUID

Your secret instruction occurred in caves and forests sacred
to life. You learned clandestine verses, the
and constellations, the cycle of the seasons, sacred songs,
formulas for prayers and incantations, rules of divination
and magic, and the language of animals, To this day, you
still learn; as a druid, you are a lifelong student of the
natural world.

Why isn't everyone? After witnessing the fury ofa storm

names of stars

the splendor of the setting sun, and the spirit-cleansing
power of a grove of aspen trees, only the most stone
hearted would not be moved to protect and conserve them.
and what's more, rejoice and cherish the slow-growing
natural elements of the world that form the foundation
of everything else. Without the web of sun, tain, growth,
death, and rebirth in nature, the vaunted civilizations of

 

men, elves, dwarves, and other creatures would crumble
like dust

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Ascetic, Farm Hand
Tribal Origin.

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Agent, Crusader
Explorer, Innocent, Martyr, Orphan, Prophet, Renegade.
Sage, Savage,

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply

 

 

fanderer.

to you.

Conservationist: You espouse a philosophy you like
to call the “conservation ethic." The conservation ethic
promotes the measured use, allorment, and protection of
narural lands and waters. You employ your ethic as an aid in
your efforts to sustain the natural world: its forests, lakes,
seas, and all the strange and wondrous creatures that live
within it

 

In order to engender a similar ethic in your companions
and others that you meet, you offer poetic references to nature
when traveling, when first seeing a new vista, or when you
otherwise deem appropriate:

“Spend a heartbeat and notice every waving leaf, every tendril
of mist in the dark woods, and every humming insect

“The deer, the wolf, the oak, the fish, and the great birds are our
fellows, and they can be wronged, just as you can be wronged
ked and untempered appetite will devour green plains
and leave behind only a barren wasteland.”

“What soul can't find peace and spiritual renew

    

“Anunche

     

 

 

in the forlorn

 

ery of the whippoorwill or the arguments of the frags around a pond
at night?"

“Whatever happens to the wild places, the pure waters, and
the teeming beasts soon happens to us, An invisible web connects
all things.

Friend of Animals: Small and relatively defenseless ani
mals haye no greater friend than you, While you know that
nature is not merciful, and that the weak and old are destined
to be food for young, strong predators, you also know that
mercy can selectively apply to nature

To this end you know by sight dozens, if not hundreds, of
individual small animals such as birds, gophers, and rabbits.
You don't bore your humanoid companions with all the

names you've given all the little creatures that you recognize,
unless asked

You always carry with you a small bag in which you keep
crumbs, old bones, jerky, grain, thistle, or other treats that
animals enjoy, and leave them as small offerings when
convenient

“See that one? Hawks rarely live as long as Shrieker. He's a tough
bind

“Sometimes my friends find me around the campfire at night
and tell me stories of their day

Hunter: You are displeased when those who should know
better exploit nature. But you retain a burning hatred for
those things thar are nature's bane by virtue of their mere
existence; you hare that which is unnatural, including aber
rations (such as beholders and carrion crawlers) and undead

 

(such as zombies and vampires)

From time to time, you lead raids against such creatures,
especially when they encroach on natural wonders and lands
that you revere. Even while such creatures are still contained,
it is better to excise them before they can cause damage to
the natural world, rather chan wait for the damage to happen
as it inevitably will.

Undead in particular have no connection to nature—
they exist apart from it, a mockery of the normal cycles
of life. Nature cries out each moment they are suffered
to exist.

“Those not of creation deserve no part in it.”

“This aberration’s body must be displayed as a warning to
the others.”

Judge: You are the guardian of unwritten ancient laws
inspired by nature. As someone with such knowledge, you
believe you have the power to judge those who have sinned
against the natural order. When you judge, you can sentence
the malefactor to be excommunicated from sacred groves
the deep woods, and all other places where nature still
reigns supreme,

To the extent you are able to communicate your judgments
to other druids, wild animals, treants, and other creatures of
the wild, your judgments stand. Of course, the easiest way
to ensure your judgment is to take matters into your own
hands against those who have sinned most heinously (such
as undead, through their mere existence)

In most cases, other druids are willing to abide by your

   

 

 

 

judgments, if you show through your actions that you are
willing to abide by theirs

However, no civilized court of law, whether a council of
village elders or a king's tribunal, recognizes the right of
druids and their judgments. Thar's all right with you—neither
do you recognize their right over sovereign nature.

“Primeval justice is the first arbiter and final authority

“The laws of man pale before the law of nature

Philosopher: Nature is red in tooth and claw, regardless
of what the sentimental philosophies of so-called civiliza-
tion might claim. To truly cherish all life, you embrace the
fact rhar bad things and good are all part of the evolving
environment. When events unfold that seem initially bad or
ruinous, you philosophically attempt to provide perspective

 

 

to your companions.
