   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 

 
  
     
   
 
 

   
   

feature at later levels, such as the ability to wild shape into
an elemental at 16th level).

Benefit: You can shapeshift at will into powerful animal
or nature-oriented forms, Each time you use this ability, you
can choose the exact look that your shapeshifted form takes.
Druids pick animals from the terrain and climate they're most
familiar with. For example, a druid from a jungle mightadopt
the form of a black panther when in predator form, while one
from the taiga might shapeshift into a white wolf. The svo
forms look different, but functionally they're identical. This
is a supernatural ability.

It requires only a swift action to shapeshift. If you are
capable of taking more than one form, you can shapeshift
directly between two forms without returning to your normal
form. There's no limit to the number of times per day you
can change forms, nor to the amount of time you can spend
in a shapeshifted form.

You retain your normal Hit Dice, hit points, base attack
bonus, base saving throw bonuses, and skill ranks regardless
of your form, You also retain your normal ability scores,
though each form grants a bonus to your Strength score.

You keep all extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like
special attacks and qualities of your normal form, except for
those requiring a body part your new form does not have.

All your held, carried, or worn gear melds into your new
form and becomes nonfunctional until you return to your
normal form. You cannot speak in shapeshifted form, and
your limbs lack the precision required to wield a weapon ot
perform tasks requiring fine manipulation. You can't cast
spells or activate magic items while in shapeshifted form,
even if you have the Natural Spell feat or other abiliry that
would allow you to cast spells while wild shaped.

Unless otherwise noted in the descriptions below, you
retain your size and space when you adopt a new form. You
always retain your type and subtypes, regardless of the nature
of the form assumed, You don't gain any special attac
qualities while shapeshifted except as described below.

When you shapeshilt into a form other than your own,
you gain natural weapons (and reach with those weapons)
as described below. These natural weapons gain an enhance-
ment bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls equal to 1/4
your druid level, and at 4th level and higher they are treated

 

 

 

  

5 or

as magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage
reduction. The damage dice given are for Medium druids;
smaller or larger druids should adjust those values according
to the table on page 28 of the Dungeon Master's Guide.

1f knocked unconscious orslain in shapeshifted form, you
revert to your original form,

Predator Form: This form, traditionally that of a wolf,
panther, or other predatory mammal, is the first one a shape-
shifting druid learns.

While in predator form, you gain a primary bite attack
that deals tdé points of damage. You have the reach of a long
creature of your size (5 feet for Small or Medium). You gain a
+4 enhancement bonus to Strength, and your natural armor
bonus improves by 4. Your base land speed becomes 50 feet

Ar4th level, you gain Mobility as a bonus feat whenever you
are in predator form (even if you don't meet the prerequisites)

    

    

Aerial Form: At th level, you can shapeshift into a flying
creature. Traditionally resembling an eagle, vulture, or bat,
the aerial form enables fast travel and che ability to soar out
of harm's way.

While in aerial form, you gain a primary talon attack that
deals 1dé points of damage. You have the reach of a long crea-
ture of your size (5 feet for Small or Medium), You gain a
enhancementbonus to Strength anda +2 enhancement bonus
on Reflex saves, and your natural armor bonus improves by
2. You gain a fly speed of 40 feet (good maneuverability)

At7th level, you gain Flyby Attack as a bonus fear whenever
you are in aerial form.

Ferocious Slayer Form: At 8th level, you can shapeshift into
a large and fierce predatory form, such as a tiger, brown bear,
or dire wolf.

While in ferocious slayer form, you gain a primary bite attack
that deals 148 points of damage and two secondary claw attacks
that each deal 1dé points of damage. Your size increases by one
category (toa maximum of Colossal), and you have the reach of
a long creature of your size (5 feet for Medium or Large). You
gain a +8 enhancement bonus to Strength and a +4 enhance-
ment bonus on Fortitude saves, and your natural armor bonus
improves by 8. Your base land speed changes to 40 feet.

At 10th level, you gain Improved Critical (bite) and
Improved Critical (claw) as bonus feats whenever you are in
ferocious slayer form.

Forest Avenger Form: At 12th level, you can take the form of
a massive plantlike creature, similar to a shambling mound
or a treant. (Druids not native to forest terrains typically
rename this form to fit their environment.)

While in forest avenger form, you gain a pair of primary
slam attacks that deal 1d8 points of damage each. Your size
increases by one category (to a maximum of Colossal) and
you have the reach of a tall creature of your size (5 feet for
Medium, 10 feet for Large), You gain a +12 enhancement
bonus to Strength and a +4 enhancement bonus on Fortitude
and Will saves, and your natural armor bonus improves by
12. Your base land speed becomes 20 feet.

You gain damage reduction 5/slashing while in forest
avenger form

At 14th level, you gain Improved Overrun as a bonus feat
while in forest avenger form (even if you don't meet the
normal prerequisites)

Elemental Fury Form: At 16th level, you can shapeshift into
agiant form of air, earth, fire, or water (your choice each time
you shapeshift)

While in elemental fury form, you gain a pair of primary
slam attacks that deal 2d6 points of damage each. Your size
increases by two categories (to a maximum of Colossal), and
you have the reach of a tall creature of your size (10 feet for
Large, 15 feet for Huge). You gain a +16 enhancement bonus to
Strength and a+4 enhancement bonus on Fortitude, Reflex,
and Will saves, and your natural armor bonus improves by 16.
You do not gain any new modes of movement in elemental
fury form, nor does your base land speed change.

You gain immunity to extra damage from critical hits while
in elemental form. You also gain immunity toan energy type
related to the element chosen (air = electricity, earth = acid,

 

 

 

  

   

 
