  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  

Fiegenschub

Iilus. by E.

You area free agent of your deity, unfettered by the strictures
of aclerical hierarchy. You wander from place to place, wield
ing your power to advance the causes you deem worthy in the
eyes of your god, or else you choose a great crusade against
that which offends your deity, requiring a lifelong commit-
mentand unswerving purpose, While the cleric comes to his
power through study and discipline, you are the recipient of
agreat gift—or, as some perceive it, a terrible curse. How you
wield the divine power burning in your heart is up to you.

This class appears in che Complete Divine supplement.

Suggested Backgrounds {choose one); Ascetic, Drifter, Noble
Scion.

 

 

  
     

Suuggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Companion, Cru:
sader, Innocent, Martyr, Prophet, Seeker, Wanderer.

HARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply
TO you.
Mystic: You aspire co the .
divine in every aspect of {
your life, The difficulties
and dangers around you are
only temporary; you keep
your eyes firmly fix
matters of the spirit, which
are all that truly matter. You
have little interestin wealth,
fame, or creature comfort
since these things are tran-
sitory too. Instead, you seek
enlightenment, understand-
ing, and spiritual growth
Some mighrsee you as obliv:

 

don

 

 

 

ious or irrational, but those are
unfair characterizations. You
simply have the ability to look
past fear, pain, and suffering
to the eternal rewards that will
surely follow. You possess moral
and physical courage in abundance,

because you do not fear death or in: "
jury. You don't go out of your way to
get hurt or killed, of course, bur there
isno point in fearing pain or death when €
you know that your spirit will survive,

While your comrades might not always ap-
preciate your detachment from matters of the
physical world, you are compassionare (or care
ful, at least, if you are evil) and fearless. Nothing
discourages you.

 

Seek out adventures for the right reasons—aiding others,
gaining knowledge, advancing the cause of your deity, or (if
you are not good) hardening your soul and accruing power
for the day when you leave your fleshly existence behind
Monetary gain for its own sake interests you little, but
the growth you experience in taking on any challenging
experience—such as recovering an ancient treasure—means

 

Sorra the blessed

that you do nor necessarily spurn your companions’ quests
for material pain.

   

When circumstances permit, contemplate decisions care-
fully. You are not given to hasty action or imperuousness, Even
in combat, you remain calm and deliberate. s

 

peak slowly and
thoughtfully; avoid undue excitement. When you encourage
your friends, remind them that very little in the world around
them has the power to do them true and lasting injury.
Courage, friends; all this has happened before, and will
happen again.”
“Pain is illuse

 

ry! It exists only in the mind,”
True strength lies within
Death is a doorway, nothing more, Fear it not,”

Prophet: The hand of a deity is upon you, and you are not
always in control of your words or actions. From time to time
you give yourself over completely to the will of your deiry,
and say or do things that you had no intention of saying or
doing. Driven by impulses you cannot control or understand,

you might be capable of aston-
ishing acts of courage or awful
treachery—it all depends on
the whim of your deity.
When you play a prophetic
character, you do not surren-
der control of your character
tothe Dungeon Master. How-

ever, you should ask your DM

to look for the occasional op-

portunity to communicate
unusual information through
your character's words or actions.

When confronting an evil lord,

your comrades might be inclined
to guard their words and avoid a
fight in the middle of his castle—
but the prophet might suddenly
blaze forth with a ringing condem-
nation of the lord's secret wickedness,
possibly enumerating crimes you
and the other players had no direct
knowledge of beforehand.

Even if your Dungeon Master
does not provide you with ex cathe-
s dra material for the game session, you

should listen to your intuition, Don't
watch your words and don't rethink
impetuous actions, Take these impulses as
signs that your character is caught in the grip of
her deity, and let the chips fall where they may.
Work with your Dungeon Master to create a few
interes

 

 

 

ng prophecies for the campaign. The best
prophecies are ones that can come true in unexpected ways
The third moon draws nigh; beware!
‘One of you will fall tonight”
We shall triumph, and yet we shall fail.”
“L cannot see all that follows from the deeds of this day:
Scourge of Unbelievers: You are your deity's chosen
instrument of vengeance, punishment, and righteous wrath
