Ir falls to you to defend the innocent and harry the iniqui
tous. You are driven, never able to rest as long as your deity's
enemies remain at large. Since you have an inclusive view of
who might be considered an enemy of your deity, that means
you rarely rest at all.

amine your deity’s alignment, description, and dogma
or credo and create a list of the creatures or people you need
to smite first. Anybody not on that listis irrelevant... unless,
of course, they can be recruited as allies in your ongoing
crusade. When your adventures pit you against foes that your
deity has no special distaste for, you chafe for the opportunity
to finish up and return to what's cruly important: bringing
the wrath of your deity down upon his or her enemies.

You are frequently inspired to scream or snarl imprecations,
letting your foes know exactly who you are and exactly why
you are punishing them

“Pelor’s light will sear you, spawn of darlenesst”

“Pelor commands your destruction, infidel!"

“Naught shall avail you against the might of Pelor, demon! Lwill
hurl you screaming back into the Abyss!”

DEITY’S FAVOR

‘The favored soul enjoys the flexibility of spontaneous spellcast-
ing, but her limited spell selection can hinder her ability to
provide the healing expected from a divine caster. Choosing
the deity’s favor class feature means youll be a bit less potent
in combat, but lets you use the spells you're already casting to
help youand your allies last longer ina fight. Favored souls who
choose this option should expect a lot of requests for support
spells such as bless, bull's strength, and prayer, but remember
thar your cure spells gain this benefit as well.

Level: 3rd.

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
the deity’s weapon focus or deity's weapon specialization
class features (you still gain proficiency with your deity’s
favored weapon).

Benefit: Beginning at 3rd level, whenever you cast a favored
soul spell, you can choose any one ally affected by that spell

 

 

(including yourself) to gain temporary hit points equal to three

times the spell’s level, These temporary hit points last for up
to 1 minute per level of the spell. If the spell would also grant
temporary hit points, use only the larger value and its duration.
Ifyou use this ability on a creature thatis still under the effect of
aptevious use, the new temporary hit points overlap (do not stack
with) the temporary hit points the creature had remaining.
Beginning at 12th level, you can choose to grant these tem-
porary hit points to any number of allies affected by the spell.

STARTING PACKAGES

Package 1: The Defender

Dwarf Favored Soul of Moradin

Alulity Scores: Str 13, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 15, Cha 12

Skills: Concentration.

Feat: Shield Specializarion* (heavy)

Weapon: Warhammer (1d8/x3), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft).

Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC).

Other Geay: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer's
kit, 31 gp.

 

 

Package 2: The Healer

Halfling Favored Soul of Yondalla

Ability Scores: Str 12, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 15, Cha 13.

Skills: Heal

eat: Spontaneous Healer (Complete Divine).
Weapons: Short sword (1d4/19-20), five javelins (1d4, 30 ft.)
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC).
Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer's

kit, 33 gp.

  

 

 

 

Human Favored Soul of Kord
Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 10, Con 12, Inr 8, Wis 15, Cha 13.
Skills: Concentration, Diplomacy.
Feats: Combat Casting, Combat Focus*,
Weapons: Greatsword (1d12/19-20), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.).
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC)
Other Gear; Spell component pouch, standard adventur-
er's kit

 

MAKING A PROPHECY

What's the point of being a prophet if you never get anything
right? The trick in creating a prophecy is to bury it in symbols
or metaphors that, after the fact, become perfectly obvious.
The more specific you are, the more likely it is that you will get
something wrong.

Don't use names, use titles. Instead of saying, “King Derath
of Veronia,” say something like, “Veronia’s lord" —or better yet,
“the Lion of Veronia,” or even “the Lion of the East.”

Don't use dates that occur once; use times of year, seasons,
or celestial events. So, instead of saying “March 15th of the year
635," say something like “beneath the third moon," or “when
winter's grip weakens in the fifth year.”

Use metaphors instead of clear statements. Don't say “dies,”
or “is killed;” say “falls into darkness,” “stands before his fathers,”
or “goes into the night.”

Add a random, uriconnected remark, such as “The traitor sees
it all,” or “Now the door stands open to the night.”

Here’s an example:

When rises the red moon above the North,
The Lion of Veronia ceases his roar.

Three times three are the slain.

Rose petals fall from the elf maiden's hands.

These images could mean almost anything. The red moon might
be a specific season or celestial phenomena, or a metaphor for
“war.” The Lion of Veronia might be its king or a Veronian-born
hero. The rose petals could be flowers strewn on a grave, or
perhaps drops of blood—so was the elf maiden grieving for the
slain, or was she actually their murderer? It worked for Nostrada-
mus: you can make it work for you.

 

 
