    

 

Tordek Brighthammer, Warchicf of the frou Hall:

 

turn, you gain @ +2 dodge bonus to AC. This bonus improves
to +4 at 11th level and to +6 at 16th level,

COUNTERAT TACK

Every offensive move creates an opening for a counter-
attack, and you know how to exploit this facet of combat to
its fullest

Level: 12th

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
the fighter bonus feat at 12th level.

Benefit: At 12th level, you learn to hold back some of
your offensive prowess to enable a potent counterattack. As
a full-round action, make one melee attack at your highest

 

 

base attack bonus. At any time before the start of your next
turn, you can use an immediate action to make a melee attack
(using your highest base artack bonus) against an enemy that

attacks you in melee.

OVERPOWERING ATTACK

You never waste time wounding your opponent, instead
concentrating on delivering one solid strike

 

SCARS

Every scar has a story, and your body tells many tales.

Jagged Scar Running from Eye to Jaw: “A guy at the Rolling Rock
Alehouse got in a lucky shot with a broken whisky bottle.”

Raking Scars Down Arm and Chest: “Yeah, turns out this girl |
was seeing was actually a werewolf.”

Huge Halfmoon Scar on Forearm: “Damn shark man got a bite
out of me."

Ragged Circle Scar on Stomach: “See this? A salamander stuck
me with a flaming spear. You haven't felt pain until you've had a

Level: 16th
Replaces; If you select this class feature,
you do not gain the fighter bonus feat at
16th level
Benefit: At 16th level, you can focus
your attention in combat to deliver a single
deadly attack. Asa full-round action, make
one attack at your highest base attack bo-
nus. That attack deals double damage, as
do any other attacks you make before the
start of your next turn.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Archer
Elf Fighter

Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 15, Con 12, Int
10, Wis 12, Cha 8
Skills: Jump, Spot (cc)

Feats: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shor.

Weapons: Spear (1d8/x3), dagger (1d4/19-20, 10 ft.)
longbow with 40 arrows (1d8/x3, 100 ft.)

Armor: Chain shirt (+4 AC

Other Gear; Standard adventurer’s kit, 4 gp.

 

Package 2: The Defender
Dwarf Fighter
Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12,
Cha 6
Skills: Craft (weaponsmithing), Intimidate.
Feats: Iron Will, Weapon Focus (dwarven waraxe)
Weapon: Dwarven waraxe (1d10/x3), shortbow with 20
arrows (1d6/x3, 60 ft
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy steel shield (+2 AC
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 4 gp.

 

 

Package 3: The Destroyer
Human Fighter
Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 12,
Chas
Skills: Climb, Intimidate, Jump.
ats; Cleav

 

, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (greatsword),
pons: Greatsword (2d6/19-20), shortbow with 20 arrows
(1d6/x3, 60 fr

Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC)

 

 

Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 4 gp.

yard of burning metal shoved into your guts.”

Serrated Scar on Brow: “The lich said ‘run’ and | ran—right into
its sarcophagus. Knocked me silly, but the pain washed away
the fear.”
healed Scar on Palm: “When | grabbed that demon, it

 

burned my hand with hellish cold fire. The damn thing still hasn't
healed! Sometimes, when | wake from a nightmare | can't remem-
ber, the wound is oozing a strange, green fluid.

Mystery Scar “It's something | want to forget and that you
don’t want to know about.

 

=

 
