   

Nothing fazes you. Like the warlock, you are a son of dark
ness, gifted with powers that others find unnerving (at best
or outright evil (the usual case). Your adventures carry you
far and wide, because you rarely find it easy to stay in the
same place for long, Sooner or later the whispers and guarded
glances begin again, and it is time to move on, No one under
stands your powers, and most people you meet wonder exactly
how you're going to stab them in the back when you finally
show your true colors. Hexblades have a bad reputation in
many quarters, but whether you're the exception or the rule
is up to you.

This class appears in
the Complete Warrior
supplement

Suggested Backgrounds
(choose one); Artisan,
Drifter, Guttersnipe,
Soldier.

Suggested Personality

 

  

le
Archetypes (choose one h,

Daredevil, Mercenary, ty
Orphan, Rebel, Renegade,
Wanderer.

CHARACTER
THEMES

One or more of the following

 

character themes could apply
to you
Darkhunter: Sometimes evil is

Ils. by J. Nelson

the best weapon to wield against evil
You are a grim and dark avenger, using
your baleful abilities to hunt down
and slay villain:
evil than yourself. Even if your
methods and motivations are not
particularly pure, who can
question your results?
Asa sworn enemy of
evil, you do not hesi-
tate before taking on a
quest to destroy or drive
off even the most horrible monster. You

sand monsters more

  

 

commit to the hunt with little expectation of “iv
reward, But once you've chosen an enemy to

defeat, you'll stop at nothing to come out on top. Bargain
away your orc caprives to the mind flayers to gain passage

DOESN'T PLAY WELL WITH OTHERS

Sometimes, the most interesting characters are those with the
worst attitude problems, They're just not team players. You can
seriously annoy the other players at the game table by playing
this role to the hilt, so be careful when you adopt a persona that
is hard to get along with. A little bit of attitude goes a very long
way. Instead of starting a fight when your friends are trying to

 

through their territory to the place where your true adver
sary lairs? No problem, Sanitize an outbreak of lyeanthropy
by killing all the bitten villagers? It's hard, but necessary.
You rarely indulge in cruelty or excess, but you can be a
remorseless foe indeed,

You are absolutely convinced that you are the only person

 

who really knows what's go

ing on in most situations

Cut off people who talk

too much, before they

waste more of your time.

Don't bother to tell peo

ple what you are going to

do, and never explain your

actions afterward. Your com-

panions don’t have the stomach

for the work at hand, so it would be

better if they didn't get in your

question your methods, You can always find
new allies

  
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

 

Darkhuntersare silent, nameless figures who
do not deign to speak to their foes—or their allies,

for that matter. When they do, they tend to be terse,

gtim, and blunt

Enough tale, Now it's time to die”

 

home, bar your door, and ignore anything you

 

+ outside from sundown to sunup. You may live fo
see the dawn,”
“Do not follow mie, 1 will kill anyone who does.”
T've seen worse.”
Sellsword: You are a sword for hire
nothing more, nothing less. You judge the
worthiness of a cause by the amount
of money it can put in your pock:
et. While you always look out for
number one, you do recognize
the value of loyalty to your
comrades—you don't have
many friends in this world,

 

so it's smart to stay on

the good side of the few
you have.

Since your powers

‘ are poorly understood, you go

to some lengths to hide them from people you

 

don't know, Let them think you're simply a
fighter, or perhaps a fighter-sorcerer. Witch-hunts, sinister
rumors, and ugly accusations are all bad for business

 

roleplay a conversation with a NPC, you could simply adopt a
sullen silence or utter dark, cryptic warnings. Rather than derail a
well-worked out plan to defeat a particular monster by not doing
your part, negotiate an assignment that doesn't tie you to the
rest of the party, such as scouting, sneaking up behind the foe,
or distracting another enemy nearby, In short, you should still
be a team player, even if your character isn't.

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
    
     
  
  
  
