Besides, it’s useful to keep a few tricks up your sleeve; you
never know when a surprise hex might be the only way to
save your skin.

You rarely get worked up over the opposition, because to
you, it’s all business, Ogres rampaging through the province?
You can fix that, Demons murdering the priests of Pelor?
You'll adjust your rates and take your best shot at stopping
them. You need a record for reliability and success if you're
going to make any real money.

Others might view you as cold or heartless, but you know
that it’s wisest co avoid emotional entanglements. You can't
stand it when people start acting against their self-interest in
the name of a nebulous “cause,” and you detest deal-breakers
When dealing with potential employers, look them right in
the eye and state your terms.

“What's in it for me?"

“I'm not getting paid to do that.”

"The dragon wasn't in the contract, If you want the dragon taken
re of, you're going to have to up your offer.”

“Nothing personal. It's just business.”

“Sounds like you have a real problem. It’s going to cost you,"
Tormented Champion: Dark powers manipulate you.
People you love get hurt, causes you support founder and
collapse, and places you visit fall into ruin. You have been
marked for a tortured and restless existence, and your fate
is to be a harbinger of doom and woe.

You swing from morose depression to desperate acts of
blazing anger. Most of the time, you struggle with despo:
dency and gloom. Make dark pronouncements and dire
predictions about things you observe, and point out flaws
in your your allies’ plans.

Sometimes you are moved to rail against your fate and lash
out with blind, unreasoning anger at whatever obstacle or
foe frustrates you. You might leap headlong into a throng of
enemies, heedless of your safety. Or you might shake your
fist at the gods and curse them bitterly.

“The vampire's been watching us the whole time. We'
exactly what he wants."

“Some of us aren't getting out of this alive.”

"You'll get halfway across, the rope will break, and you'l fall
into the river there and be swept away into some black, airless

 

 

 

 

 

doing

 

cavern where you'll die trying to claw your way through cold,
hard stone.
“Is that all you've got?”

DARK COMPANION

By mixing arcane spells with martial talents, the hexblade
blurs the traditional line between fighter and sorcerer.
Replacing the familiar—a link to traditional forms of arcane
magic—with a unique fighting companion helps establish
the hexblade's difference from the sorcerer.

In combat, adark companion functions like a floating hex
that you can place upon your foes, By weakening the defenses
of enemies, your dark companion makes your spells and
attacks (and those of your allies) more powerful,

Level: 4th

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
a familiar.

 

Benefit: At 4th level, you can create an illusory companion
resembling a panther, spun from the darkness of the night.
Doing so takes 24 hours and uses up magic materials that cost
100 gp. Once created, your dark companion stands with you
in bartle, hindering your enemies’ defenses

Any enemy adjacent to your dark companion takes a—2
penalty on its saves and to its AC. Your companion’s speed
is equal to yours (including all modes of movement you
possess) and it acts during your turn each round. It follows
your mental commands perfectly—in effect, it is merely an
extension of your will

Your dark companion has no real substance, and thus
can't attack or otherwise affect creatures or objects. It
occupies a 5-foot space. Even though any creature can
enter a dark companion's 5-foot space without restriction,
it must occupy its own space in order to have any effect
on enemies. It is immune to any damage or other effects
that might harm creatures, though it can be dispelled or
suppressed just like a spell effect. Your dark companion is
treated as a spell whose level is equal to 1/4 your hexblade
level. If it is dispelled, it automatically reforms at your side
24 hours later.

 

A dark companion can't create flanking situations, nor
does it provoke attacks of opportunity from movement,
because enemies automatically recognize it as an illusion.
If it is more than 120 feet from you at the start of your turn,
or if you ever lose line of effect to ir, it instantly reappears
adjacent to you.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Defender
Gnome Hexblade
Ability Scores: Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 14.
Skills: Bluff, Spellcrafr.
Feat: Armor Proficiency (medium).
Weapons: Greatsword (1d8/19-20), short bow with 20 arrows
(id4/x3, 60 ft.)
Armor: Scale mail {+4 AC).
Other Gear; Standard adventurer's kit, 4 gp.

 

 

   

 

Package 2: The Destroyer

Human Hexblade
Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 14.
Skills: Concentration, Intimidate, Spelleraft
Feat: Power Attack, Cleave,
Weapons: Greataxe (1d12/x3), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.).
Armor: Chain shirt (+4 AC).
Other Gear: Standard adventurer’s kit, 10 gp.

 

Package 3; The Skirmisher
Elf Hexblade
bility Scores: Str 15, Dex 15, Con 10, Lnt 10, Wis 8, Cha 14.
Skills: Diplomacy, Knowledge (arcana)
Feat: Dodge.
Weapons: Glaive (1d10/x3), warhammer (1d8/x3), longbow
with 20 arrows (1d8/x3, 100 ft.).
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC).
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 14 gp.

 

   

 

 
