   

War is your true calling. You follow the shrill ring of steel
on steel and the harsh cries of the carrion birds, for it is on
the battlefield thar you demonstrate your true worth. When
the specter of war is far away, you take service with a strong
lord, state, or cause, training other warriors and preparing
your warband for the day when battle finally comes to the
land in which you reside, Or, if that does not suit you, you
search out combat wherever it awaits—perhaps you skirmish
against orc raiders threatening the kingdom's frontier, fight
for a rebellious duke who is trying to throw off the king’s
rule in his lands, or travel abroad to far and exotic lands in
search of a battle worthy of your talents, When you take up
the haphazard career of an adventurer, you're only passing
the time until something big comes along.

This class appears in the Miniatures Handbook supplement

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Attisan, Mariner, Noble
Scion, Soldier,

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Challenger,
Crusader, Leader, Mercenary, Royalty, Strategist, Theorist,

CHARACTER THEMES

One or both of the following character themes could apply
to you

Black Knight: You are a hero of the first rank, a bold
and inspiring leader of men—but you do not want to be
recognized. Knights entering the lists sometimes cover their
heraldic devices with sable cloths to keep their identities a
secret; you likewise do not display the emblems you have
won, and adopt a simple nom de guerte so that no one will
know who you are.

Decide why you desire anonymity, You could be a noble of
high birth, expected to spend your days engaged in statecraft

 

   

 

 

 

TAKING CHARGE AT THE TABLE

If your character is the “leader” of the adventuring party, you've
got a hard but rewarding bit of roleplaying ahead of you. Most
people at the gaming table don’t want to be bossed around;
we all get enough of that in our real lives, after all. Even if you
think your character would be a hard-nosed drill sergeant who
barks orders at everyone around him, you'd better not try that
at the table.

So how do you lead in the game without stepping on every
one else's ability to make choices? You need to be a democratic
leader, not an autocratic one. To that end, try these techniques.

Ask for ideas: Solicit suggestions from the other players, even
if it's something as simple as “Anybody got half an idea of
what this monster can do?" Recognize other characters’ areas
of expertise and ask for their help. For example, if the party
is facing a magical phenomenon, make a point of asking the
player running the arcane spellcaster what he thinks the party
should do.

Be the chooser of plans: Make a point of trying other players
suggestions instead of issuing your orders without their input
Don't go with the same player's idea each and every time
everybody at the table should have an opportunity to see their
ideas tested by the party, It's okay to choose your own plan, but
make that the exception, not the rule.

instead of roaming the land as a nameless adventurer, You
adopt your guise so thar you will be free to aid people with
the point of your sword instead of wasting time with the
intrigues of the court. You might have a fearsome enemy
that you cannot defeat, and so you remain hidden so that
the people around you will not become the victims of your
adversary, Or perhaps you are actually infamous, known for
a terrible defeat on a distant battlefield. You carry the guilr
of hundreds of lost lives, even though you might not have
ever had any chance to triumph,

If your DM agrees, you are a member of the nobility. Design
your house's heraldic insignia and motto, so that you can
describe whar you reveal when you finally choose to unmask
your shield.

Since you are trying to remain mostly anonymous, you
don’t view it as your role to be the bold and inspiring leader of
your party, Instead, you are satisfied to be a stalwart comrade
and loyal follower, using your abilities to help your friends
defeat their foes, You do your best to avoid the spotlight and
give credit to your allies for your successes.

“I may have struck the last blow, but the troll was dead on ils feet
by then, Mialee's fireball made all the difference.”

“Valor is its own reward

“Twas there, certainly, and 1 suppose 1 played a small part. But
my companions deserve the credit for defeating the dragon.”

“Give my share to the temple of St. Cuthbert.”

“Who Iam is not important. What is important is that the
werewolf has been slain. Your town should be safe now.”

Leader of the Company: A marshal combines personal
charisma, leadership, and tactical acumen like no other char-
acter. You are a born leader, the equal of a paladin. Everyone
expects flowery speech from the bard or persuasive words
from the sorcerer, butthe marshal and the paladin are heroes

 

 

 
 

 

Encourage initiative: Look for ways to put decision-making in
the hands of your comrades. For example, if you want the rogue
to scout ahead, don't provide exacting instructions for how far
ahead you'd like her to be or what she should do if she gets
in trouble, If the party needs information about the location
of a villain’s lair, look over to the bard and say, "Devis, you're
in charge of finding out where Talthon is hiding. We'll follow
your lead.”

Be generous with praise: Cheer the successes of other players
in character. Your leader should shout out a “Well done!” or
"Huzzah!" or “By the gods, you fight like a lion today!” when
other characters do well.

Avoid criticizing others: Here's a place where game leader-
ship takes a sharp turn from real-world leadership. In real life,
a leader needs to let his or her subordinates know if they're
falling short of the mark—preferably without humiliating them
in public, but that depends on the setting. It’s not your job to
make the other people at the table better D&D players or more
thoughtful followers, and they'll resent it if you try. As a “leader”
in the game, you have to be exceedingly careful about criticizing
other players. Nobody wants to come to a game to be chewed
out or cut down by a sarcastic remark. An absence of praise
speaks volumes, if you've been generous with your encourage.
ment previously,

 
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
    
   
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
       
