that warriors want to follow. You possess sincerity, purpose,
and valor, and your potent auras allow you to manifest these
virtues for your allies.

Not only are you a skilled diplomat, but you are the
absolute best choice for the job of battle commander. Since
you can easily change the benefit your aura provides, it
behooves your allies to follow your lead, They'll do better
in the fight if they take actions that make use of your aura
For example, if you choose the minor auras over the top or
master of opportunity, you provide a real incentive for your
friends to charge or move past enemies to reach the foe you
want them to fight. When you use your auras this way, say
something inspirational!

You should strongly consider the Leadership feat if you
are roleplaying a marshal of this type. If the other play-
s at the table don't listen to you, at least your cohort or
followers will

 

 

e

“Ignore the lizardfolk! The druid is our true foe!"
“Surround the gray render and strike from the flank! That is the
quickest path to victory!”
“Stand your ground here, and let the orcs come to us! We'll cut
them down as they climb the rampart
Follow me! Now is the time to strike!

ADRENALINE BOOST

Asa marshal, you make everyone on your team more effective
at what they do. While the traditional marshal accomplishes
some of that by improving his allies’ mobility, by choosing
adrenaline boost you instead to take on some of the cleric's
ability to bolster the health of your allies. It's particularly

 

effective in rallying injured comrades, making it a good
ability to save until things start looking grim
Level: 4th.
Replaces: If you

 

ct this class feature, you do not gain

 

the grant move action class feature.

Benefit: Starting at 4th le’
to discover a reservoir of energy they didn't think they had.
Once per day, as a standard action, you can grant temporary
hit points equal to your marshal level to any or all of your
allies within 30 feet (but not to yourself). If the ally's current
hit point toral is no more than half his full normal hit points

el, you can exhort your allies

 

 

the number of temporary hit points granted to thar character
is doubled (to twice your marshal level}

This ability only affects allies with an Intelligence score of 3
or higher who can hear you and understand your language. The
temporary hit points last for up to 1 minute per marshal level

At 8th level, you can use this ability twice per day. You can
use it three times per day at 12ch level, four times per day at
16th level, and five times per day at 20th level

If you use this ability on a creature thar is still under the
effect ofa previous use, the new temporary hit points overlap
{do not stack with) the temporary hit points the crearure
had remaining.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Defender
Dwarf Marshal

Ability Score

  

 

: Str 14, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 13.

 

Skills: Intimidate, Listen, Spot

Feat: Shield Specialization (heavy)

Weapons: Dwarven waraxe (1d10/x3), warhammer (1d8/x3),
5 javelins (1d6, 30 ft.)

Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC).

Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 6 gp.

Aura: Force of Will

Package 2: The Second-Rank Warrior
Elf Marshal
Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 15.
Skills: Diplomacy, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot.
Feat; Combat Reflexes,
Weapons: Glaive (1d10/x3
(1d8/x3, 100 ft
Armor; Scale mail (+4 AC)
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 26 gp.
Aura: Master of Tactics.

 

  

shortbow with 20 arrows

 

 

 

Package 3: The Vanguard
Human Marshal
Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 15.
Skills: Diplomacy, Intimidate, Knowledge (nobility and
royalty), Sense Motive, Spot
Feats: Battlefield Inspiration
Improved Initiative.
Weapons: Longsword (1d8/19-20), five javelins (1d6, 30 fr.)
Armor; Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy steel shield (+2 AC)
Other Gear; Standard adventurer’s kit, 20 gp.
Aura; Motivate Dexterity.

 

Miniatures Handbook),

 

 

 

Korrin, Protector of the Crown

 

 
