 
 

 

empty-hand techniques. You learned the “heart-mind-fist
kata, you learned how to swing an eyebrow-height staff,
and you finally learned how to deliver
the potent cannon punch
After that, you were ready to
begin actual training in the
truly deadly martial arts
Years later youemerged,
a champion of your
martial style, bur still
a student seeking co’
tinual improvement and
perfection through mar
tial discipline, One day
you hope to join the

 

great masters of your
art, focusing your ki so
precisely that you tran
scend the mortal realm
altogether and partake
of immortality

 

Suggested Backgrounds

(choose one): Artisan,

Ascetic, Gladiator
Suggested Personality Archetypes

(choose one): Agent, Challenger,

Companion, Crusader, Innocent, Martyr, Orphan,

ker, Wanderer Ems

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply

Titus. by C. Frank

 

Prophet, Se

 

to you

Enlightened One: You follow a meditative way of life con
sidered by some a religion, by others a profound philosophy,
and by the uninformed simply a routine. You regard yout
constant search for enlightenment as a way of life, work, and
an art form

One of the precepts of your philosophy is'sitting meditation
in which you sit quietly once a day, directing your awareness
toward your core

 

and breathing deeply for at least S minutes,
Asan “enlightened one,"
koans, that te

 

ou know many parables, called

 

ch wisdom if considered long enough

“An enlightened one lived a simple life in a hut at the foot of a
mountain. One evening a thief visited the hut only to discover there
was nothing to steal. The enlightened one caught him and told the

 

rogue, You've traveled far to find me, so you should not leave empty
handed. Here, have my robe asa gift’ Confused, the thief nevertheless

took the robe, Nude

 

his eyeson the full moon, the enlightened one
said,‘ wish 1 could have gi
“Anenlighten

  

en him this beautiful moon.’

 

one visited a terminally ll man and asked, “Shall 1
lead you on?" The sick man replied, 'T came here alone and 1 go alone.
What help could you be?" The enlightened one answered, ‘If you think
you really come and go, that is your delusion, Let me show you the path
on which there is no coming and no going,’ These words revealed the

true path so clearly that the sick man smiled and passed on

 

ee ON

You were introduced to martial techniques in a distant,
hard-to-reach monastery. You first learned the eighteen basic

   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

 

 
    
   
    
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
  
    
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
       

History Keeper: Every monastery has its own story of
origin, describing where it gained its particular style and
what ancient master popularized the particular

 

pecialized
form of martial arts taught there. Every monastery puts in
aclaim as the oldest, or alleges to teach the

most “pure” form of the martial arts
You don't fret about it because you
know your monastery is actually the
You
like to tell the story of how your

oldest and the most authenti

 

monastery learned the secrets of its
current style.

The ancient and legendary
master Chandharma founded

ur temple five hundred years

 

ago, and the monles took him in.

In thanks, Chandharma trained
the monks in the original, true

 

forms and katas. 1 know the very
style that ancient Chandharma
once taught my forebears.”
“Northern” Stylist:
Your monastery taught a
particular style of martial
s referred to as the north
ern style, This style features long
steps, extended postures and
wide stances, jumping, kicking,
and dramatic acrobatic flourishes,

 

The northern style is known fora
great variety of attack forms. When
you use any one of these forms, you
call out the attack name in a strong, con

fident voice, which steadies you and frightens your enemies

 

with your poise
Long Fist!" You use this punch attack to spear past your
foe's guard when le

 

st expected
Tumbling Fist!” A tumbling fist is the strike you make after
you've tumbled into the perfect position to strike at your foe.

 

‘Quivering Palm!" This famous strike needs no explanation.
Even if you're not powerful enough to use the discipline, the
name alone inspires fear in your enemies.

Red Fist!" Whenever you draw first blood, you like to
scream this out, just to unnerve your foe.

 

Flood Fist!” When you use a flurry of blows, you are using
the famous flood fist, where you seek to overwhelm your foe's
defenses under a flood of staggering blows.

Flower Fist!” This disingenuous, fast and deceptive blow is
made whenever you foe is off guard, whether he is surprised
flanked, or otherwise not effectively defending himself

 

“Southeastern” Stylist: Your monastery taughra particular
style of martial art referred to as the southeastern style. This
style features fists, elbows, shins, feet, and knees to strike at
opponents, as well as briefly held grapples that set an opponent
up for a particularly egregious elbow or knee attack, Unlike othet
martial styles, the southeastern style is specifically designed to
incorporate fitness and toughness, which allows southeastern
style fighter the endurance to accept pain and ignore fatigue
