ina fight. When you use a southeastern style atrack form, you
call our the attack name in a strong, confident voice, which
steadies you and frightens your enemies with your poise

“Kao Dode!" As part of an attack, you jump and bring your
knee up into your opponent's stomach, side, or iflow enough,
your opponent's head
‘ao Loi!” You spring up off one leg and switch in midair
to strike with the knee of the other leg. This confusing strike
is dr ful.

“Kao Tone!" The simplest knee strike, you simply bring one
knee up directly into your foe's stomach, side, or head (if low
enough), Sometimes this is aided if you grab your foe by the
head and jerk him forward at the same time.

“Southern” Stylist: Your monastery taught a particular
style of martial art referred to as the southern style. This style
features short steps and close fighting, with arms close to the
chest, elbows held low and ready to offer protection against
blows to the stomach orsides, Most important, the southern
style is distinguished by five animals.

When you use any one of these styles, you call out the
animal you are emulating in a strong, confident voice, which
steadies you and frightens your enemies with your poise.

“Tiger!” You emulate the tiger to express qualities of fearless-
ness and aggression. The tiger attacks ina straight line. When
you charge, you are emulating the tiger, the most aggressive
of the five “southern” animals.

   

matic when succes

     

 

 

  

 

 

 

“Crane?” You emulate the crane to avoid your enemies attacks,
no matter how they come at you. When fighting defensivel
you are emulating the crane,

“Leopard!” You emulate the leopard to maximiz

 

your agility.
After all, pound for pound the leopard is one of the strongest
animals, and also the fastest. When you tumble into position
to attack your opponents, you are emulating the leopard.

“Snake!” You adopt the fluidity of snakes to better close
with your opponents and hurt them from positions they are
unready to defend against. When you grapple an opponent,
you imitate the sinuous, fluid motion of the snake.

“Dragon!” You emulate the dragon for a broad array of needs.
When you attack under the guise of the dragon, your attacks
are strong and hard. When you make a stunning attack, you
are emulating the dragon.

A signature attack is the three-finger claw ("Dragon Claw!
the index, thumb and middle fingers make hard pinching
attacks to your foe's muscles and tendons, When striking with
the dragon claw, you have incredible stunning power because
the blow originates in your stomach and hips, then flows up
as you rotate forward into the blow, which culminates in the
stunning claw,

Staffmaster: While you are adept at closed and open
hand styles of martial arts, you are particularly skilled with
the use of a long quarterstaff. Instead of the standard length
quarterstaff, you prefer a 7- to 8-foorlong, flexible staff that
you refer to as your “flowing water staff" or sometimes your
“dragon pole.”

Instead of attacking with either end, you usually grasp one
end of the staff and use it to make devastating thrust attacks,
diversionary “slap” attacks, and to deflect the blows of your
foes, letting them slide off your staff like water.

 

 

   

DECISIVE STRIKE

Flurry of blows can be exciting to use
attack rolls you can make

just look at all the
but in practice it can lead to a
flurry of misses, The decisive strike alternative class feature
turns your typical combat maneuver from a whirl of action
into a methodical and devastating attack.

Level: 1st

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not
gain flurry of blows (or any later improvements to that
class feature}

Benefit: As a full-round action, make one attack with
an unarmed strike or a special monk weapon, using your
highest base attack bonus but raking a—2 penalty on this
attack roll. If the attack hits, ir deals double damage (as does
any other attack you make before the start of your next
turn). If you use this strike to deliver a stunning attack,
increase the save DC to resist the stun by 2. This is an
extraordinary ability.

At Sth level, the penalry on the attack roll lessens to —1,
and at 9th level it disappears.

At tith level, you can make two attacks when using this class
feature, though no more than one attack can target a single
creature, Both attacks use your highest base attack bonus.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Defender
Human Monk
Ability Scores: Str 13, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8.
Skills; Balance, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot, Tumble
Feats: Combat Focus”, Dodge, Stunning Fist.
Weapon: Unarmed strike (1d6), sling with 10 bullets (144,
50 ft.)
Armor: None.
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit (without sunrods),

1 gp,3 sp.

 

 

 

  

m

Package 2: The Destroyer
Half-Orc Monk

Ability Scores: Str 15, Dex 15,

Skills: Climb, Jump, Tumble,

Feat: Improved Grapple, Improved Natural Attack, Weapon
Focus (unarmed strike)

Weapon: Unarmed strike (18), sling with 10 bullets (1d4,
50 ft).

Armor; None.

Other Gear; Standard adventurer's kit(without sunrods),

1 gp, 3 sp.

 

n 12, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 6

 

Package 3: The Skirmisher
Elf Monk
Ability Scores: Str 13, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8.
Skills: Hide, Listen, Move Silently, Tumble.
Feat: Ability Focus (stunning fist), Stunning Fist.
Weapon: Unarmed strike (1d6), sling with 10 bullets (1d4,
50 ft.).
Armor: None.
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit (without sunrods),

1 gp, 3 sp.

 

 

 

 
