a game that the players freely enjoy without expectation
of commitment
For the Lady who has my heart, I dedicate this quest.”

“Leave this fo me--honor commands that the final blow be mine.

Merciless: Do any deserve mercy? No.

Leniency and compassion are words used to describe weak
dealings toward those who have been judged and found want-
ing. This doesn't mean that you seek to kill all those who, in
your judgment, are weak and faithless, but it does mean that
such creatures do not deserve your respect

“There is no mercy, there is only judgment.”

Moral Philosopher: Moral conduct, morality, and the cor-
rectness of moral thought are paramount to you; however, you
know that morals vary by culture. Is one moral code better
than another? Is an ethical code better, or as your brothers
and sisters in your order claim, are ethics a mortal-contrived
sham thar hides the crue reach of morals? You don't know,
but you wonder,

“An ethical code establishes tradeoffs toward the greater good,
and weighs all the negative and positive results of an action, apart
from moral absolutes. Thus, decisions are based upon the greatest
good for the greatest number.”

Reverent: You begin almost every utterance with a refer
ence to your god.

“As the truth of [your deity] tells us...”

“If [your deity] allows

“In the name of [your deity], the beneficent, the merciful

1 you do not begin an utterance with a reference to your
deity, you wrap up with one.

as | your deity] commands.”

may [your deity] light and guard me."

--that all may know the wisdom and majesty of [your deity]

Zealous: You are a fervent servant of your deity. You are dili
gent in your duties, show enthusiasm in performing them on
your deity's behalf, and display a powerful interest in anything
related to your deity, whether it's support or opposition,

You show your zeal to your friends and foes in one or more
of the following ways.

Exultant: You are joyful and proud when you think of your
deity, and are given to rejoicing and triumphal shouts. See
the Paladin Battlecries sidebar.

Disciple: You know the history of your deity, and those saints
and other people important to your deity, You know the trials
and tribulations of your deity and/or your deity’s saints, and
you reenact those trials in a yearly ceremony. Moreover, you
dress according toa strict interpretation of any doctrine your
deity dispenses.

Missionary: You know with your gut that others would be
happier if they worshiped your deity as you do. To this end
you consistently (though not constantly—annoyance isn't a
tool of conversion) exhort friends and strangers to convert

Tattooed: You've shaved your head and proudly display
a tattoo of your deity's holy symbol across your brow and
naked head,

Tract Giver: You always carry with you several rracts thar
describe the glories of your deity, and pass these out (or leave
them to be found) wherever you think they'll do the most
good. (Tothis end, you have an arrangement with a printer, or

at least a letterist.) You are not a vocal missionary, preferring
to work in more subtle ways.

“Consider the benefits that would be yours if you find grace
with [your deity]—surety, confidence, and comradeship, at the
very least!

CHARGING SMITE

Despite the glorious vision of a shining knight atop a war-
horse charging into combat, the reality in the D&D game is
thar it’s far from easy (and sometimes impossible) to bring
a big animal along on your dungeon crawl, To avoid the
drain on time and resources created by a special mount you
might not even be able to use, you can select the charging
smite alternative class feature instead. You still leap into
the fray, taking the fight to the enemy, but you do so ina
manner that better matches the typical combat found in
a D&D game.

Level: sth

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
a special mount

Benefit: Beginning ar Sth level, if you smite evil ona
charge attack, you deal an extra 2 points of damage per
paladin level ro any evil creature you hit (in addition to the
normal bonus damage dealt by a smite). If the charge artack
misses, the smite ability is not considered used. This is a
supernatural abiliry.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Cavalier
Elf Paladin
Ability Scores; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 15.
Shull: Ride.
Feat: Mounted Combat
Weapons: Longsword (1d8/19~-20), lance (1d8/x3), shortbow
with 20 arrows (1d6/x3, 60 fr).
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield.
Other Standard adventurer's kit, wooden holy symbol,
21 gp.

 

 

 

Package 2: The Destroyer

Dwarf Paladin
Ability Scores; Str 13, Dex 8, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 13.
skills: Knowledge (nobility and royalty), Sense Motive
Feat: Power Attack,
Weapons: Greataxe (1d12/x3), five javelins (1d6, 30 ft.).
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC).

Jear: Standard adventurer's kit, wooden holy symbol,

 

 

  

Package 3: The Vanguard

Human Paladin
Ability Str 12, Dex 8, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 15.
Skills; Diplomacy, Heal, Sense Motive.
Feats: Improved Initiative, Shield Specialization (heavy).
Weapons: Longsword (1d8/19~20), two javelins (1d6, 30 ft.)
Armor: Chain shirt (+4 AC), heavy wooden shield (+2 AC)
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, wooden holy symbol,

10 gp.

 

 

 
