 
 

fe RANGER,

You travel to places where few others dare totread, Relying on
a potent combination of stealth, woodcraft, magic, and fight-
ing skill, you are the master of the wilderness, Where others
see a trackl

 

 

ss forest, you see an impenetrable refuge. Where
others see a burning desert, you see a deadly trap for enemies
you lure within. Where others see impassable mountains, you
see high roads to new lands. You are the ultimate explorer,
self-reliant and adaptable, No other adventurer comes close
to your independence and sheer versatility.

Suggested Backgrownds (choose one): Drifter, Farm Hand,
Mariner, Soldier, Tribal Origin.

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Agent, Explorer,
Orphan, Rebel, Renegade, Savage, Seeker, Wanderer,

HARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply
to you

Bounty Hunter: Unlike other rangers, you are equally at
ease in the wilderness or in the cities and towns of human:
kind. You hone your woodcraft and tracking skills to use them
against other people instead of forest-dwelling monsters. You
might bea cold-hearted mercenary, an intrepid tracker, or even
an outlaw or highwayman who uses woodcraft to get close to
your quarry, For you, the lore of the wilderness is a tool that
you employ for your particular ends.

Your choice of favored enemy makes you more effective at
tracking (and defeating) particular quarries, so choose wisely.
I's not unusual fora bounty hunter to choose his own race as a
favored enemy—not because you're a misanthropic killer, but
simply because you want to be especially good at following vil
Jains who happen to be of your race through the wilderness

Keep a record of each quarry you stalk over the course of
your career, and preferably a trophy or souvenir from each
success. Show off your trophies and boast a little about your
victories when you have the chance. You want word to get
around about who you are and what you do, so that villains
who find you on their trail will be more likely to panic, slip
up, and make a fatal mistake

“The price is 100 gold.

“Only one bounty has ever escaped me
eye out, just in case."

Driven Avenger: When you were a child, your town was
burned to the ground by orcs, or displacer beasts devoured
your family, or a dragon hunted your tribe to extinction
Whatever the tragedy, you have be

 

 

na less, no more.”

0 far. I keep a constant

 

n left with an endless
thirst for vengeance against the monster or monsters that
ruined your life.

  

DO ONE JOB, AND DO IT WELL

While rangers have a lot of skill points to spend, you will find that
it's just not possible to maximize your skill ranks in all the things
that rangers do, Depending on your particular character theme,
you might need to prioritize your skill purchases as follows
Bounty Hunter: Craft (trapmaking), Ride, Search, Survival,
Use Rope. Survival is the most important of these for a tracker.

    

 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
 
   
  
   
 
  

The monsters responsible for your loss are at the top of your
list of favored enemies. Your back-story prominently features
a tragic loss at the hands, claws, talons, or fangs of these mon-
sters, Create a suitable tale of woe and suffering, and write it
down—you'll tell it over and over again to anyone who asks.

In any situation or challenge you confront, look for signs
that your mortal enemies are somehow involved. For example,
ifdrow enslaved your village, you should suspect drow involve-
ment in almost any problem you encounter.

“The drow ave behind this, You'll sev.”

“Only drow attack with such precision.”

“1 didn't like the way that innkeeper was watching us, 1 bet he's
secretly in league with the drow, spying on us for them!

the only good drow is a dead drow.”

Master of Beasts: You have allies everywhere you go, The
birds and beasts are your friends, and even the fiercest crea
tures suffer your presence. While your animal companions
do not help you in battle like the druid’s help her, you value
them for more than their fighting skill. Animals give you
senses that you otherwise would not possess, allow you to
keep watch over vast areas without being seen, and can carry
messages over great distances

Avoid fighting naturally occurring animals if possible.
Instead of killing a cave-dwelling brown bear in your path,
see if you can lure it away from its lair or merely frighten it
off. Sometimes you have to resort to lethal methods to fight
off dangerous animals, but there is no honor in such a battle;
you should help your companions to avoid encounters of this
sort instead of killing animals that are only acting as their
nature dictates,

 

 

It's nor unusual for a ranger of this sort to be uncomfort-
able around other people. Keep your thoughts to yourself,
and don't use two words when one will do. People are cruel
and deceitful, but you can always trust an animal to act in
accordance with its nature. When you have to interact with
humanoids, stay short and to the point, and speak bluntly.
When you can, use animal metaphors to make your point.

 

 

“If you hope to catch Drethaas, you must run like the deer all day
and through the night. Can you keep up with me?
“The ogre is licking its wounds in its den. Now we can finish

the monster
“We have his scent now. He won't get away”
“L have the eyes of an eagle, No ore will pass by this place unseen.
‘Way finder: You live for the opportunity to tread new lands
and see things no one has seen before. You measure yourself

   

against the raw power of nature by crossing unfordable rivers,
climbing impassable mountains, and mastering uncrossable
deserts, The lure of treasure and the challenge of fearsome

 

Cross-class skills such as Gather Information and Intimidate
can be useful, too.

Driven Avenger: Hide, Listen, Move Silently, Spot.

Master of Beasts: Handle Animal, Knowledge (nature), Ride

Wayfinder: Climb, Knowledge (geography), Survival, Swim,
Use Rope.
