 
 

ee ROGUE

The world owes you a living

You are the ultimate opportunist, keeping your eyes open
for the next big chance to come your way. Fortune favors the
bold, and while you might not always fight with noteworthy
valor, you certainly have the boldest of aspirations

You are a trickster, a rapscallion, a scoundrel. You don't
fight fair, and if you can help it, you don't fight at all. Stealth
guile, and daring are your weapons, Why fight when another
act of daring—such as an impossible climb or a brazen
bluff—might serve to help you ps
the prize into your hands?

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Artisan, Drifter, Gutter:
snipe, Mariner.

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Agent, Challenger,
Daredevil, Explorer, Mercenary, Orphan, Rebel, Renegade,
Simple Soul, Strategist, Trickster, Wanderer

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply
To you.

Braggart: You havea true gift forselfaggrandizementand
letting your mouth run away from you. Sometimes this can
lead to trouble, but let's face it: Anyone as clever, quick, and
good-looking as you should be renowned for her deeds, and
shouldn't knuckle under in the face of so-called authority.
Ifsome jumped-up constable or high so-called noble doesn't
like the way you carry yourself, it's his problem, not yours.
He probably wishes he had half your charm and style.

Take every opportunity to insult, belittle, and deride your
enemies. What better way to show off your wit and inventive.
ness, while entertaining your friends? Don't leta combat pass
without a quip.

   

 

an obstacle and deliver

 

“Are you trying to leill me with your axe or your breath, you
malodorous fiend?"

Jey, you dried-up old husk of a wizard! You wanted to live
forever looking like that?”

“Where's the evil plan? Come on, you've got to have an evil
plan! How can you call yourself a cra
an evil plan?"

Make sure stories told about your deeds reflect well on you;
if part of the story isa little boring or doesn’t cast you ina
good light, there's no harm in adding some embellishment.
There's no conversation that can't be improved by talking
about yourself a little—or a lot. You're the most interesting
person around, after all

“Was Lord Gerrat there when | stole the Dragon Egg Ruby from
under a demilich’s skull? Did he stand next to me when I faced
down the frost giant jarl with nothing but this kulert so that my
friends could get away? Then Lord Gervat can wait a few hours,
because I'm not leaving this tavern while the music's still playing
and everyone is dancing”

“Yes, yes, that's all very interesting, but let's talk about me.”

Above all, maintain your self-confidence! If you don't
believe in yourself, who will? People exaggerate their troubles,
so you should feel free to whittle them back to size.

“Oh, sure I've fought dragons before! Great big ones, fire-breathing
of course, bigger than castles! They've not so tough.”

 

zed cultist if you don't have

 

  

   

   

 
  
    
  
 
    
  
 
    
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
   
   
   
   
     

“They just call it the Tomb of Horvors to scare off the morons. It’s
a sham, a put-on! We'll walk right in and steal every last copper
from the place, just you wait and see!”

Common-Born Hero: You view yourself as a champion
of the people, fighting against injustice and tyranny with
a sly sense of humor, a larcenous streak, and an intuitive
grasp of the art of derring-do. You can't stand to let a bully
go unpunished, and most monsters and villains are nothing
more than particularly big and scary bullies.

While you are certainly happy to profit from youradventures,
you live for the gratitude and appreciation of the common folk
Returning a stolen treasure to its rightful owner—especially
an owner whois otherwise impoverished—is more satisfying
than simply enriching yourself, Even if it's difficult to part
with 2 hard-won prize, you trust thar suitable rewards will
follow when you do the right thing. You don't have to give
away everything you find, but you should see to it that your
successful adventures help as many people as possible.

More so than most other characters, you take an interest in
the common people you encounter in your travels. Keep a list
of the minor NPCs you encounter, as well as what they need or
what they want. Ask your DM to provide your character with
opportunities to meet and help common folk if these are not a
feature of his game, (DMs will appreciate it if you don't pester
them for derails on every person in the village, though.)

"Madam, why so sad? Here, take this gold coin and buy your
family a feast!”

“L swear on the blood of my mother, there will be justice in
this town!"

Skulk: You're an artist, not acommon thief. You are a bold
and daring warrior, bur instead of putting your faith in iron-
mongery and clumsy charges, you seek victory in the shadow:
You have no battle cry or trademark move—you don't want to
be seen or heard before you strike. Some might question your
courage, but none can doubt your effectiveness.

Surprise is your biggest asset, so you are a master of skills
and talents thar let you creep into places where you can take
your enemy unaware, Seek out opportunities to scout out the
lay of the land and locate potential enemies without a big,
noisy party of adventurers at your heels, giving away your
position and waking up every monster in the dungeon. If
you can silently take out a weak or unsuspecting foe on your
own, great—but remember, it's your job to avoid giving the
villains a chance to strike back. Make sure you can handle
anything you start when your allies aren't at hand

You are rarely loud or boastful; you know what you can do,
and that's the only measure that counts. You find ir easier to
speak little and hear much, keeping your opinions to yourself.
When you do voice an opinion, you tend to be terse and offer
little or no explanation.

ll take care of the sentries.”

“Give me ten minutes to get into position before the rest of you
storm in.

 

 

 

“Five ogres ahead—two sleeping, three more awake, | don't want
to leave them behind us.”

Specialist: You are 2 consummate professional. Master
of a set of rare and valuable skills, you view adventures as
jobs—nothing more and nothing less. You don't accompany
