  
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
    
    
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
       

You navigate difficult terrain as easily as a commoner walks
down a cobbled lane. Your natural talent and intensive train-

 

ing forged you into the ideal investigator of both the green
wilds and the dark depths, Where your compatriots find them-
selves caught on brambles, tripped
up on potholes, and wounded
by caltrops, you flow, jump, and
sweep through all distractions
offered by the mute landscape

Your ability to travel into difficult-
to-teach locations complements
yourability to evade the eyes of
both friend and foe. You
are seen only whereand
when you choose
to be.

Quick, rrackle:
difficult to pin
down, and able

  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  

 

to pierce both
physical barri
ersand lightless

 

<panse
lethal when you
decide to make your
presence known, wheth
er in a direct attack or
when you make your report to
the eager company ready toact on
the intelligence you gathered.

Thisclass appears in the Complete
Adventurer supplement

Suggested Back
Soldier.

Suggested Personality Avcletypes (choose one}: Agent, Daredevil,
Explorer, Orphan, Rebel, Renegade, Seeker, Wanderer

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply
to you.

you are

 

 

Derwwyn, Scout Captain
of the Mithral Delvers

Mins. by E. Fiegensebub

rounds (choose one); Drifter, Mariner,

 

 

Game Hunter: You ear what you kill, and you're none too
fond of fancy meals served in taverns. To you, hunting animals
for food in their proper season, by climate, and factoring in
animal diversity is a philosophy and even a way of life. You'd
never eat a spawning fish out of season, and you recoil in dis-
gust at the thought of dining on veal or herded animals

This means you're kept busy hunting for your sustenance,
but luckily you know how to prepare and preserve large
catches in ways that ensure you can comfortably ear for a
month or more between big hunts. Of course, you prefer
fresh game to preserved, so whenever you can give jerky
rest in favor of quail, squab, or coney, you take time to set up
a snare or head into the brush, only to emerge an hour later
with your fresh prize in hand.

You are not stingy with freshly caught game, and you know
many different ways of preparing your catch. You cook for
your compatriots as much as they'll allow, and you enjoy

trying new preparations with narural
novel presentations

's, seasonings, and

 

“know a recipe for coney better than anything you'll ever taste
im town.”
It's not the season for salmon—don't insult me by trying to
serve it
Military Heritage: You come from a military tradition, having
served either in the king's army or ina large, respected
mercenary company. You distinguished yourself
though you never achieved high rank. On the other
hand, you were a noncommissioned officer,
and those who outranked you depended
upon your scouting expertise.
Because of your military heri-
tage, you are familiar with military
jargon, and speak of “flan
ing maneuvers” and how
strategy as la
while tactics are small

 

 

scale.” Moreover, you
like to assess all adven-
turing (and perhaps even
social) siruations in terms of
seven strategic principles that
served you well while you were
“in service.
iguring out the objective is half the
battle." Once you throw out all distracting
factors, what are you really hoping
to achieve?

 

“With enough munitions, we can
mount a credible offense.” You're
not afraid to pay for magic ar
rows and other high-quality
offensive “hardware.

“Without cooperation, we
You know the value that reamwork and mutual
aid adds to any dangerous situation. You like to work out
tactics ahead of time, and to establish who in the party is
responsible for what duty.

have nothing

 

We have to concentrate our attacks!" It's foolish to scatter
attacks across multiple enemies—if members of your party
concentrate their attacks on a dangerous foe, that foe would
be brought down quicker, and thus unable to deal its own
damage as long, Then, on to the next foe

“Always look for tactical advantage, then maneuver to reach those
positions” You point out to others in your party where each
might be posirioned for best possible effect. See Tactician on
page 58 under the warmage character themes
rprise

 

   

one of my favi

  

ite weapons,” You like to sneak
ahead and get the lay of the land before engaging enemies
“Keep it simple!” Plans are well and good, but complicated
schemes go our the window the moment the first arrow is
fired. Plans that are too involved almost always collapse
Sniper: You are especially skilled in field craft and
marksmanship, allowing you to target selected enemie

 

from concealment at range, Ideally, you move into a posi
tion against a foe unaware of your presence, use as few

   
