attacks as possible to down the target, then withdraw without
being seen

Of course, ina conflict when you support a larger party of
adventurers, you do not withdraw, but instead rely on your
comrades to keep the foe or foes from attacking you directly.
In return, you concentrate your fire against foes most danger
ous to your party.

You developed your field skills on your own, or perhaps you
were trained ina military detachment of the king's guard or
ina special unit fielded by a large mercenary company.

World Traveler: You've seen itall. Well, you've seen a lor
in your travels, and you don't mind audibly comparing the
place where you currently find yourself with other places
you've allegedly traveled to. Even when you haven't physi
cally traveled toa locale you like to brag about, you indicate
(if pinned down) that you've read all about the locale in
question; after all, a scout has to keep on top of these sorts
of things.

“The way this tower 1s laid out reminds me of Tarmind Spire.
Tarmind—the spire was named after the sorcerer who built it—was
a demonbinder. Tarmind Spire was where he caged all the demons
kre bound. Anyway, keep an eye out for demons.”

“This waterfall puts me im mind of the Falls of Shandarm.
Those falls plunge a hundred fevt in a roaring cascade of white
whose thunder can be heard for miles, Local tribes cast coins, gems,
even magic items into it, thinking that their sacrifice will grant
them fortune and long life. { don't know if that's true, but there's
a fortune hidden below the cataract. Maybe we should search the
basin here?"

“Whenever 1 travel through a mine, I think of the Mines of
Minwray. The dwarves found the Minwray mine—they didn't
delve it themselves. It was a great barrow of interconnected pas-
sages, following the vein of some mysterious mineral, delved by a
vanished race. By the time the dwarves found it, the mineral was
completely exhausted. But the dwarves expanded the dig, hoping
to find some trace of what the mysterious Minwray had mined
so assiduously.”

“T hate these deep ravines—did I ever tell you about the Skarvos
Ravine? Twenty miles long and halfa mile deep, the ravine shelters
a sprawling citadel of crude dark stone in the deepest, darkest root
of the fissure. No one’s ever returned from the citadel who explored
if, so no one knows what ts inside.”

DUNGEON SPECIALIST

The scout's mobility gives her a significant advantage over
foes in combat. While any scout can hold her own in an
underground setting, some specifically train for the dark,
enclosed spaces found in dungeon environments. Lf you
select the dungeon specialist alternative class feature, you
give up some of your speed to turn the dungeon intoa three
dimensional combat environment. You'll shine in small
rooms and tight corridors, though area spells become a bit
more dangerous for you.

Level: 3rd.

Replaces: By choosing the dungeon specialist alternative
class feature, you give up both fast movement {normally
gained at 3rd level and improved at 11th level) and evasion
(normally gained at sth level).

Benefit: At 3rd level, you gain a climb speed equal to one-
half your base land speed (rounded down to the next 5-foot
increment), and you can attack with a light weapon normally
while climbing. At 11th level, your climb speed improves to
equal your base land speed.

Having a climb speed grants you a +8 racial bonus on
Climb checks and allows you to take 10 on Climb checks
even if rushed or threatened, You also retain your Dexterity
bonus to AC while climbing, and enemies gain no special
bonus on attacks against you while you are climbing. See
Movement Modes, MM 311, for more details.

At Sth level, you learn to use confining areas to your
advantage. Whenever you are standing on the ground and
adjacent to a wall, you gain a +2 bonus to AC and opponents
gain no bonus on their attack rolls when flanking you.

This is an extraordinary ability. You lose both of these
benefits when wearing medium or heavy armor or when
carrying a medium or heavy load.

STARTING PACKAGES

Package 1: The Archer
Halfling Scout

Ability Scores: Str 12, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 13,
Cha 8

Skills: Climb, Disable Device, Hide, Listen, Move Silently,
Open Lock, Search, Spot.

Feat: Point Blank Shot.

Weapons: Spear (1d6/x3), dagger (1d3/19-20), shortbow
with 20 arrows (1d4/x3, 60 ft.)

Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC).

Other Gear; Standard adventurer's kit, thieves’ tools,
20 gp

 

 

Package 2: The Hunter
Elf Scout

Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 13,
Chas,

Skills: Disable Device, Hide, Listen, Move Silently, Open
Lock, Search, Spot, Survival.

Feat: Track.

Weapons: Spear (1d8/x3), throwing axe (1d6, 10 ft,}, short-
bow with 20 arrows (1d6/x3, 100 ft.)

Armor; Studded leather (+3 AC)

Other Gear: Standard adventurer’s kit, thieves’ tools,
15 gp.

 

Package 3: The Skirmisher
Human Seoul

Ability Scores: Str 14, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 13,
Cha 8

Skills: Disable Device, Hide, Jump, Listen, Move Silently,
Open Lock, Search, Spot, Tumble.

Feats: Dodge, Two-Weapon Fighting.

Weapons; Two short swords (1d6/19~20), 5 javelins (td6,
30 ft.).

Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC).

Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, thieves’ tools,
30gp

 
