  
     
   
  
   
 
   
 
    
    
   
 
    
    
  
 
    
  
 
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
 

You weave

 

pells like poets compose sonnets. You require
no dusty tomes, no grueling apprenticeships, no protracted
study of arcane phenomena
talent to wield raw magic,

all you need is your inborn

Asa child, you knew you were different from others, and
when you uttered your first spontaneous spell, your suspi-
cions were confirmed—sorcery infused your blood!

But where did this awesome gift arise from? Could it be
a mere knack, or is it true that you can claim dragons as
ancestors? [t might be that your abiliry to manifest magic
through mere force of will is your inheritance from those
ancient creatures.

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Artisan, Ascetic, Drifter
Noble Scion

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Companion
Daredevil, Innocent, Mercenary, Orphan, Renegade, Royalty,
Sage, Seeker, Simple Soul, Wanderer.

CHARACTER
THEMES

 

One or more of the following
character themes could apply
to you.

Mysterious Stranger:

& No one knows the real you
and you prefer to keep it that
‘ way. Though you have allies
§ and might even have a few
5S friends, your background

isa mystery to all
Of course, in the ab-
sence of fact, rumor and
legend rush to fill the
void. While you might
not actively spread mis-
information, it pleases
you to hear others tell fan-
tastic stories about where
(and how) you were born or
raised, your exploits, and the
true extent of your powers.
When other characters
about your background, don’t ever
give a straight reply. Dance around
the truth, making ominous statements in place
of answers. Ler them believe what they would
like—and let your actions give them every reason
to believe the most fantastic possibilities.
A few ranks of Bluff

 

 

 

 

and/or cross-class ranks of Intimidate)
are particularly useful for pulling off this theme. In keeping
your secrets, it's useful to be able to lie directly to someone's
face, or to stare someone in the face until he or she slinks
away nervously.

  

    

“Many before you have pondered my origin, Your questions, li

for your own safety
Idn't be the first to make the mistak

those, must remain imanswered

      

 

1 0 f underestimating

   

my power

  
 
  
 
  

maiden borconer

f the Emerald Flame

Genealogist: You amass oral histories, search records,
and seek out family stories to discover the truth about your
ancestors and living relatives. Though your overall goal
is to prove that you are indeed descended from dragons,
you've acquired a lot of secondary knowledge concerning
now-defunct kingdoms, the movement of people across the
landscape, great wars and philosophical movements, and
other historical curi

While still ongoing, your search of your family his-
tory has led you to uncover distant cousins and even a
few buried family secrets. For instance, you learned that
your great grandfather didn’t die in service to the king's
guard as everyone believes. Ir rurns out he shipped to sea
with a privateer. Over the course of decades, he worked

osities.

 

   

to become the captain of his own ship, You've never been
able to discover the final fate of your grandfather's ship,
bur you are constantly on the lookout for
fresh information.
Despite the interesting revelations
you discover and the people you
now know you can countas distant
relatives, your true quest remains:
You've never once turned your
mind from the thought of your
dragon ancestry.
My grandfather had secrets
that no one could have guessed
I wonder if he had a hidden
ard?

 

“You'd do well to learn
your own ancestry. How do
you truly know what you are

if you don't know from where

 

you've com
Misunderstood Rebel:
You've never fit in. No
one understands you
and truth to tell, you
don'tcareanymore. Your
dark, brooding clothing,
pale features, and much:
tattooed flesh is part
of who you are, and if
people can't accept that, it’s
their problem, not yours. Moreover,
you relish locations that others find horror-
inducing, including necropolises, haunted
citadels, and cursed cathedrals. Though you
still draw breath, you feel as if you have something in
common with ghosts, vampires, and other humanoid
shaped undead—although none have yet seemed overly
interested in doing anything other than attempting to
kill you
You have a knack for writing dark and dismal tales, and
whether with pen or out loud, you have composed several
and the

 

stories featuring cursed families, being buried alive

 

fall of cities into hellish rifts.
Who cares?
