“I wrote a story once about a girl who was dead for a year and
never knew it

Pretender: This character theme relies on you having
taken 1 or more ranks in Bluff. Your natural charisma leads
you into making preposterous, but somehow reasonable-
sounding claims regarding a wide variety of topics

You most effectively use this talent when playing games
of chance, especially cards. For instance, when playing the
high-stakes game of three-dragon ante, your ability to bluff
effectively isa tactic you've come to rely on when you want
to make the other players believe your weak hand is strong,
or that your strong hand is weak, depending on how the
dragons fall.

However, when you are faced with stressful situations,
your propensity to invent answers to hard questions out of
whole cloth could get you into trouble at least as often as it
helps, For example, when challenged by guards asking for
credentials necessary to allow you and your friends past
some threshold, you launch into a song-and-dance meant
to distract:

‘Well, of course 1d normally give you the countersign, but didn't
you get the news? Spies are about, invisibl
ne give the countersign at this entry. Can you imagine if they
d the countersign? Can you imagine if it was because you

 

 

 

, just waiting to overhear

  

required me to give it to you now?"

“The Grand Duke sent for me. Don't give me any claptrap
about not knowing who Lam or that | am not on the list—the
Grand Duke asked for me by name! If you don't let me past
RIGHT now, I can guarantee that when 1 finally do see the
Duke a half-hour from now because you've delayed me, I'll
tell him right off 1 was delayed because of YOU! What's your
name, guard?”

METAMAGIC SPECIALIST

With a limited selection of spells at his fingertips, i's natural
for a sorcerer to turn to metamagic feats to gain flexibility
in effects. If the idea of playing a sorcerer who efficiently
twists his spells into new shapes and sizes excites you, the
metamagic specialist alternative class feature is the way to
go. Though you must forgo the benefits of a familiar to pursue
this path, some sorcerers relish not having to keep track of
such e vulnerable accessory
Level: ist.

 

 

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
a familiar.

Benefit: You can apply metamagic feats that you know
to sorcerer spells without increasing the casting time. This
benefit even lets you quicken your sorcerer spells with the

Quicken Spell feat.

You can use this class feature a number of times per day
equal to 3 + your Int modifier (minimum 1). This is an
extraordinary abiliry.

STARTING PACKAGES

Package 1: The Battle Mage
Gnome Sorcerer

Ability Scores: Str 10, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 8, Wis 10,
Cha 15.

Shills: Concentration,

Feat: Toughness

Weapon: Spear (id6/3), dagger (1d3/19-20, 10 ft.), light
crossbow with 20 bolts (1d6/19-20, 80 ft.)

Armor: None.

Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer’s
kir, 14 gp.

Spells Known: 1st—mage armor, ray of enfeeblement, shock-

ing grasp; O—acid splash, daze, detect magic, read magic, touch

 

 

igue.

Package 2: The Blaster
Halfling Sorcerer

Ability Scores: Str 6, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 10,
Cha 15

Skills: Bluff, Concentration, Knowledge (arcana)

Languages: Common, Draconic, Halfling

Feat: Spell Focus (evocation).

Weapons: Longspear (1d6/x3), dagger (1d3/19-20, 10 fi
light crossbow with 20 bolts (td6/19~20, 80 ft.).

Armor: None.

  

 

Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adventurer's
kit, 11 gp.

Spells Known; 1st—color spray, magic missile, obscuring mist;
0—acid splash, detect magic, disrupt undead, light, ray of frost.

Package 3: The Infernal Summoner
Human Sorcerer
Ability Scores: Str 8, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 10,
Che 15,
Skills: Bluff, Concentration, Knowledge (arcana), Spellcraft.
Languages: Common, Infernal.
Feats: Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, Infernal Sorcerer Howl.
Weapons: Longspear (1d6/x3), dagger (1d3/19-20, 10 fr,
light crossbow with 20 bolts (1d6/19—-20, 80 ft.)
Armor
Other Gear; Spell component pouch, standard adventurer’s
kit, 11 gp.
Spells Known: 1st—grease, mage armor, summon monster 1;
O—acid splash, detect magic,

 

 

 

 

jone.

 

read magic,

 
