 
  
   
   
   
 
   
   

 

Youll do nearly anything on a dare, going so far as to risk
your life to prove your panache, You havea style all your own
Agile and swift, witty and charming, you are the toast of the
town wherever you go, although sometimes your antics earn
you the displeasure of authority figures and the annoyance
of your more conservative compatriots.

Luckily, you excel both with your swift blade and your
equally agile tongue. You can charm even the most stone-
hearted long enough to make your getaway.

Seeking fame, praise, and perhaps hoping to right the
occasional injustice, you leap into action, glorying in the life
of a famous hero,

This class appears in the Complete Adventurer supplement.

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Drifter, Gladiator, Mari
ner, Noble Scion.

  

 

 

 

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one): Challenger,
Daredevil, Rebel, Trickster, Wanderer

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply
to you,

Avenger: Someone wronged you in the past, and you've
made it your mission to put that misdeed right and b
justice, or at least vengeance

 

ring
to bear, You can be heard fre
quently muttering the name of the person whom you blame
for your present state. You keep your blade especially sharp
you like to explain to anyone who will listen, so that when
the time comes for you to exact justice, your foe's blood will
soak the earth, See the Driven Avenger on page 54 under the
ranger character themes,

“T keep a special blade as sharp as a dragon's toath for the final
blow I'l strike.”

 

  

 

“If justice can't be mine, then L claim vengeance.”

Braggart: You are given to making incredible claims and
boasts. See the rogue character theme of the same name on
page 56.

Clothes Horse: You dress in conspicuous, flashy clothes
Dun-colored leather, gray, and tan—these are colors for
dullards, You prefer brilliant red, hunter green, navy blue,
snowy white, and coal black, but color alone doesn't make
the ensemble—it is the fashion!

Though a courtier's outfit will ser you back 30 gold pieces,
you own several widely different sers. On the days when you
are less likely to soil your clothing in sewer water or in the
blood of your foes, you trot out your finest noble outfits, made
pricier by your personalized touches.

“Take a cave you don't get any of your blood on my new silk
doublet, you knave!”

Daredevil: Your audacity sometimes leads you to perform
dangerous stunts merely to prove to others that few things
are beyond your reach, when you set your mind to them

 

     

 

Sometimes, with enough time and resources, you can rig
a stunt so thar it looks dangerous to onlookers, but actually
includes hidden safety features. However, your stunts are
frequently as dangerous as they appear,

Baiting a Monster: While you are adventuring, sometimes
a dangerous beast needs to be lured into a particular

 

   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 

location so it can be dealt with more easily, while other
times a monster is in too formidable a tactical location to
attack. That's when you shine. You declare straightaway
that you're up to baiting the creature so that itll move in
the desired direction. Invective works, as does a swift
attack and retreat, but sometimes you end up snatching a
valuable item and running,

  

“You call that a monster? I've seen more dangerous claws in a
arnyard?”

 

Master Magician: You claim you can endure anything, even
being buried alive. Why, you've gone a full seven days being
buried alive in a coffin under 6 feet of earth, or so you claim
If secretly allowed to make preparations to obtain food (and
ait), ot if you can make a deal with a friend with the right
spells to check up on you now and then, you might just take
another dare to try eight days!

Istrue, that one time L almost died, but that was just to impress
the Indies,”

Escapist: You brag that there is no restraint from which
you can't free yourself (to employ this character theme, you
should have 1 or more ranks in Escape Artist). Whether
manacles, chains, ropes, or other restraint device:
claim you've never been foiled. To keep your record
safe, you take extensive precautions, including keeping
“rigged” sets of manacles and stocks to practice with, and
as an extreme, occasionally swallowing a skeleton ke
good for unlocking many types of manacles and vaults
When necessary, you can regurgitate the key, though it's
an unpleasant process.

“The Tarterian Depths of Carceri couldn't hold me. Do you think
ell has @ chance?”

  

 

you

 

 

your puny

Leaping a Pit: Ten feet? No problem. Twenty? Just as easy
Your friends know that fissures are your specialty and rarely
dare you to span them, although on occasion putting on a
lirtle paying show by jumping a horse across a river isn't out of
the question. You take itin stride that it's best to have several
extra healing potions on hand during such an event—after
all, you've learned that your fame actually increases after a
failed attempt if you are terribly injured.

“It's okay . . . it’s not as far across as it looks.”

Humorist: Your natural charisma leads you to entertain
your friends and larger groups by making them laugh. You
employ a wide variety of tools toward this end, including
jokes, relating amusing situations (sometimes with comedic
embellishment), or acting the fool.

“What do you do if an ove attacks you with a crossbow? Pick up
the crossbow and shoot the orc.”

“Two ove mercenaries ave walking down the street when one
collapses. He dorsn't seem to be breathing and his eyes are glazed.
The other rushes up the steps of a nearby temple and finds a cleric
He gasps:'My friend is dead! What can I do?" The cleric says;'Calm

 

 

down, 1 can help, First, let's make sure he's dead The ore rushes
away, then returnisa moment later, cleaning blood off his blade, He
says, ‘Okay, now what?'"

“At dinner one night, the goblin child cries, Mommy, Mommy!
When are we going to have Aunt Gruma for dinner?’ The
mother replies, ‘Quiet, we haven't even finished your gr
mother yet.

 

   

 

‘and-
