Supernatural Stricture: You are a supernatural creature,
and you are subject to laws and strictures that other adven-
turers never experience, Others might think of these as
superstitions or taboos, but for you they are immutable laws.
For instance, you must choose a random way to go anytime
you encounter a crossroads, unless someone tells you the way.
(City streets and dungeon corridors don't usually count as
crossroads.) You refuse to enter a home without an invitation.
Domestic animals panic at your approach, You refuse to set
foot on sacred ground, or you cannot look a blue-eyed person
in the face. Whatever your stricture is, it rarely puts your life
in danger, but it is occasionally inconveniencing to you, and
memorable to anyone who witnesses your odd behavior.

There are three basic ways to handle this sort of limitation
in play.

Voluntary Compliance: You observe the stricture through
roleplaying alone.

Compliance to Avoid a Penalty: You observe the stricture
because violating it would bring about a minor penalty.

Inviolable Law: You are absolutely incapable of defying
the stricture.

Ideally, a supernatural stricture should, on rare occasions,
force you to choose or avoid an action that most other characters
would not give a second thought. Ifyou get lost at crossroads,
you might have to wait for hours ata lonely intersection in the
countryside for someone to come along and show you which

 

way to go. If you make domestic animals panic, you might
find it impossible to ride a horse, and thus walk instead of
ride when traveling overland

“I'm sorry, but Lmay not cross this threshold without an invita-
tion, Won't you invite me in?”

FIENDISH FLAMEWREATH

By theirvery nature, a warlock’s powers are unusual and unpre:
dictable. Some warlocks manifesta visible sign of their fiendish
prowess, developing the ability to wreathe themselves in burning
flames to deal damage to attackers. Giving up your fast healing
means you're less capable of bouncing back after a fight, bur the
deterrence factor of the fiendish flamewreath alternative class
feature might result in you taking less damage entirely.

Level: 8th.

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
the fiendish resilience class feature normally gained at 8th
level (or the improvements to that class feature gained at
13th and 18th level).

Benefit: Beginning at 8th level, you know the trick of fiend
ish flamewreath. Once per day you can immolate yourself in

wispy flames that don't hurt you but deal 1d6 points of fire
damage to any creature striking you with its body or a hand-
held weapon. Creatures wielding weapons with exceptional
reach, such as longspears, are not subject ro this damage if
they attack you.

Activating your fiendish flamewreath isa free action; it lasts
for 2 minutes or until you take another free action to end it
The flames provide light equivalent to a torch, but can't be
extinguished except by you, This is a supernatural ability.

At 13th level, your fiendish flamewreath deals 2d6 points of
fire damage. Ac 18th level, the damage improves to Sdé points.

STARTING PACKAGES

 

Package 1: The Blaster

Halfling Warlock
Ability Scores: Str 8, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 15
Skills: Concentration, Knowledge (arcana), Spellcraft.
Languages: Common, Goblin, Halfling.
Feat: Point Blank Shot.
Weapons: Longspear (td6/x3), dagger (1d4/19-20, 10 ft.).
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC).
Other Gear: Standard adventurer's kit, 28 gp.
Invocations: Least—eldritch blast, frightful blast.

   

Package 2: The Controller
Elf Warlock
Ability Scores: Ste 8, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 15.
Skills: Bluff, Concentration, Intimidate.
Languages: Common, Elven, Ore
Feat; Necropolis Born (Complete Arcane).
Weapon: Morningstar (1d8).
Armor; Studded leather (+3 AC).
Other Gear; Standard adventurer's kit, 29 gp.
Invocations: Least—eldritch blast, miasmic cloud.

 
  

Package 3: The Problem Solver
Human Warlock
Ability Scores: Str 8, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 15.
Skills: Bluff, Concentration, Spellcraft, Use Magic Device,
Languages: Common, Infernal.
Feats; Communicator (Complete Arcane), Skill Focus (Use
Magic Device)
Weapons: Longspear (1d8/x3), morningstar (1d8), two dag-
gers (1d4/19-20, 10 ft.).
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC).
Other Gear; Standard adventurer's kit, 20 gp.
Invocations: Least—devil’s sight, eldritch blast.

 

SUPERNATURAL PENALTIES
AND BONUSES

Talk with your DM about whether or not you should be subject to
a penalty for breaking a stricture, and if so, what the right sort of
penalty should be. Generally, a ~1 penalty on caster level or saving
throws for 24 hours is not unreasonable for breaking a stricture.
If you are liable to a penalty for your supernatural stricture,
you are accepting a penalty that offers no benefit other than an

interesting roleplaying hook. To balance this out, you should
have a supernatural gift that occasionally provides a modest
bonus (+1 bonus on caster level or saving throws for 24 hours)
The gift should be something that is not under your control. For
example, you might receive the benefit of your gift on the night
of the new moon, during a thunderstorm, or when you carry a
lock of hair from a man hanged for murder. Work with your DM
to create a flavorful and appropriate gift for your warlock.

 
