Ambush; When possible, you prefer to attack your foes from
concealment when they least expect such an assault, Good
options include striking from dense underbrush or firing
ranged weapons from a high position.

“We have to establish a killing ground, position two groups to cut
off any escape, and post someone to keep watch so we know when
to launch the ambush.”

Frontal Assaull: Sometimes, the best tactic is a direct,
hostile advance toward the foe. The hope is to overwhelm
the enemy with your strength, However, you know that it’s
rank stupidity to call for a frontal assault against a foe in a
fortified position

"We've run out of options, Time fora suicide strike. .. er, frontal
assault!

Pincer Movement: Lf you are with a group large enough
to pull ie off, and if you're fighting a foe in numbers large
enough for it ro matter, you like to employ a tactic called the
pincer movement, where you attack the massed flanks of the
opponent simultaneously in a pinching motion after your
foe has committed forward. Your forces ideally respond by
moving out to surround the foes.

“Surround them, envelop them, don't let any escape!”

Flying Wedge: In some ways like a frontal assault but more
refined, a flying wedge is a charge where all your allies are
arrayed ina V shape. You puta bruiser at the point of the V,
hoping to breach the foe's line; then the following attackers
can widen the gap. This maneuver carries a certain risk: If
the foe can slow or pause the wedge, you've given your foe
an opportunity to try a pincer movement of its own

“Beat him down, break the line, bow! them over!"

ECLECTIC LEARNING

Some warmages find the limited range of their spell selec
tion chafing. These characters yearn for the sorcerer’s or
wizards utility spells, such as invisibility, dimension door, or
even the humble detect magic. While you will never have as
wide an access to such spells as other arcane casters, the
eclectic learning alternative class feature gives you at least
a taste of what your fellow arcanists already enjoy (without
significantly watering down your battlefield focus).

If you take this option, choose carefully which spells
to learn. Focus on spells that will remain useful as long
as possible—while engle's splendor might seem like a good
choice at 6th level, by the time you can afford a good cloak of
Charisma you might regret that earlier choice.

Level: 3rd, 6th, 11th, or 16th.

Replaces: If you select this class feature, you do not gain
the advanced learning class feature normally gained at a
particular level. The choice you make at one level has no
bearing on the choice you make ara later level—you could
choose eclectic learning at 3rd and 6th level, advanced

learning at 11th level, and then eclectic learning again at
16th level

Benefit: At 3rd, 6th, 11th, or 16th level, you can choose
to add a new spell to your list that would normally be
outside your area of expertise. The spell must be a sorcerer/
wizard spell, but it can be from any school. The spell is
treated as being one level higher than normal (for example,
invisibility, a 2nd-level sorcerer/wizard spell, would be treated
as a 3td-level warmage spell for you), You must be capable
of casting spells of the new spell's adjusted level—for
instance, you can't choose a 3rd-level sorcerer/wizard spell
at 6th level, because the spell is treated asa 4th-level spell
for you.

STARTING PACKAGES
Package 1: The Battle Mage
Gnome Warmage
Ability Scores: Str 8, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 8, Cha 15.
Skills: Concentration, Intimidate, Spelleraft.
Languages: Common, Gnome, Goblin.

  

   

   

  

Feat: Bartle Caster (Complete Arcane),
Weapon: Longspear (1d6/3).
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC).

Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard adven-
turer's kit.

Package 2: The Blaster
Human Warmage

Ability Scores: Ste 8, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 15.

Skills: Concentration, Intimidate, Knowledge (arcana),
Spellcraft

Languages: Common, Draconic.

Feats: Lightning Reflexes, Spell Focus (evocation)

Weapons: Spear (1d8/x3), light crossbow with 20 bolts
(1d8/19~-20, 80 ft.),

Armor: Leather (+2 AC).

Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard advenrurer's
kit, t gp.

Package 3: The Sharpshooter
Halfling Warmage

Ability Scores: Str 6, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 10,
Cha 15,

Skills: Concentration, Spelleraft, Spot (cc).

Languages: Common, Elven, Halfling.

Feat: Point Blank Shot.

Weapons: Spear (1d8/x3), light crossbow with 20 bolts
(1d8/19-~20, 80 ft.).

Armor: Leather (+2 AC.

Other Gear: Spell component pouch, standard advenrurer's
kit, 1 gp.

 

 
