 
 

S. Prescott

Hus. by

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
    
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
    
 
   

—____________ WIZARD

Given time enough, you hope to discover every secret of
magic ever penned. The arcane secrets of the world excite
you like nothing else, and the discovery of a new tome,
scroll, or magical treatise makes your heart skip a beat, your
face flush, and your breath come quick. Each new libram of
spells you discover is another intellectual fortune, and the
anticipation of what you'll find is nearly as satisfying as the
actual identification of a spell wholly new to your library.
While you hate leaving your sanctum with its library and

 

 

 

 

arcane equipment that you use to determine the magical secrets
of magic items and artifacts, it is good to now and then venture
from the laboratory and actually utter the incantations, hexes,
and powerful spells that you prepare daily. The craft you pursue
is an art, and like any pursuit, it requires practice.

Suggested Backgrounds (choose one): Artisan, Ascetic, Noble
Scion.

Suggested Personality Archetypes (choose one}

 

 

 

Agent, Challenger,

Crusader, Innocent, Mercenary, Renegade, Royalty, Sage,

Seeker

 

rategist, Theorist, Trickster.

CHARACTER THEMES

One or more of the following character themes could apply
to you.

Doting Master: Your familiar is more than a mere adjunct
of your power—it is your companion, friend, and confidant.
Whenever you eat, whether informally, or at an inn oreven
ata formal party, you always make certain thar your familiar
samples the best tasting portions of the meal.

You worry about your familiar’s ability to stay warm, or at
least fashionable, and so you've ordered a few custom pieces
of clothing with which to outfit your familiar, including a
vest, paw (or talon) gloves, and goggles. Whether or not your
familiar is smart enough to respond, you ask its opinion on
weighty matters.

While you are immensely proud of your familiar, you cast
a critical eye at the familiars of other wizards and arcanists
who keep pets. You know that your bond with your familiar,
and better yet the skill your familiar displays, is a reflection
of your worth.

“Never mind them, Piggin. We know we're right, even if they
choose not to bow to our superior knowledge of things arcane”

“This pie issucculent! Come, get a taste, Little Browning! Where

 

are you?

“Look there, Tibb, A raven! So bedragglec
looks lilee it's on its last feathers, doesn't it?”

Evil Curious: You've always told yourself that you merely
enjoy magic—who wouldn't? Ir’s the best thing about living,
isn'tit? But you've recently realized that your impulse control
might not be what it should when it comes to the discovery of
new tomes and items, No matter how evil the previous owner
of the item or tome, you can't help but be curious about the
spells within.

However, you also know that true evil isa lure that can cage
your mind and will just as effectively as an illithid can, and it
can consume all your good works and past accomplishments
To avoid that fate, you constantly look for items and or spells
that might serve as an “insulator” so that you can study evil

 

so thin. Poor thing

 

tomes and items with some amount of spiritual protection.
You've heard that such spells exist, however fallible, and you
intend to find them.

“L have safeguards to protect me against any influences beyo

 

my own will!”

 

“We must understand this if we are going to learn what we ne
to defeat the threat!

Knowledgeable: As a master wizard, steeped in the arts
arcane, you know a lot about a lor, much of which is esoteric
to your comrades unschooled in wizardry. That is no reason
not make regular use of your large and mysterious vocabulary
in day-to-day conversation, or to reference various entities
of great power and or wizardly significance when you are
surprised or otherwise disturbed.

You are also familiar with a great many tomes and don't
mind referencing them in regular conversation, especially
if you claim to have penned a few of your own.

By the silver scales of the Denebic Water Dragon!”

Just as the gaze of Shandalfar pierces any murk . .

If the dread power of the Spell of Utter Ruination could be used
asa measure.

“If knew the words to the Citrine Wall of Finality, things would
be different here, but

“This path reminds me of the Twelve Unsolvable Mazes of the
Demon King Tatharok,”

‘Oh ho! You'd argue with the author of The Power of the Wizard—
The Earth, The Planes, and the Magical Path to Enlightenment?"

“1don't hold too much with the mysticism infused with the spells

 

 

discussed in Drawing Down the Moon, or any mysticism, really.
I'm more about the art, not the theory”

‘Well, according to what I've read in Magical Monsters: A Besti-
ary of Fearsome Creatures

IMMEDIATE MAGIC

Other than having a single additional spell of each spell level,
a specialist wizard functions like any other wizard. Your
evoker’s fireball spell deals as much damage as that of a conjurer,
diviner, or necromancer, and doesn't look any different. By
taking the immediate magic alternative class feature, you
gain a useful rick that sets you apart from other specialists.
Though giving up your familiar is a hardship, it means you
have one less thing to worry about in a fight.

Level: 1st

Replaces: If you select this class
a familiar.

Benefit: You gain a spell-like ability that reflects your
chosen school of magic. Activating this ability is an immedi-
ate action, and you can use this spell-like ability a number of
times per day equal to your Intelligence bonus (minimum
1). Its equivalent spell level is equal to one-half your wizard
level (minimum 1st), and the caster level is your wizard level
The save DC (if any) is equal to 10 + 1/2 your wizard level +
your Int modifier. This is an extraordinary ability.

You can't activate this ability in response to an attack that
you aren'taware of. For instance, ifan invisible rogue strikes
at you, you can't activate urgent shield to gain a bonus to your
AC against the attack. All effects last until the start of your
next turn unless otherwise noted.

 

 

ature, you do nor gain

 

 
