   

Benefit: Asa swiftaction, you designate a single opponent
as the target of this feat. When you are adjacent to the c

  

   

target, you can choose to count as occupying any other square
you thre:

 

n for purposes of determining flanking bonuses
for you and your allies. You also occupy your current square
for flanking an opponent

Special: A fighter can select Adaptable Flanker as one of
his fighter bonus feats.

AGILE SHIELD FIGHTER

You are skilled in combining your shield bash attack with
an armed strike. When you use your shield in unison with
a weapon, your training allows you to score telling blows
with both

Prerequisites: Proficiency with shields, Improved Shield
Bash, Shield Specialization.

Benefit: When making a shield bash and armed strike
attack as part of a full attack action, you take a ~2 penalty
on each attack. These penalties replace the normal ones you
incur for fighting with two weapons,

Special: A fighter can select Agile Shield Fighter as one
of his fighter bonus feats.

ARCANE ACCOMPANIMENT

You infuse your performance with magical energy, allowing
its effects to continue even as you attend to other tasks
Prerequisites: Perform 4 ranks, Arcane Flourish, arcane
caster level 1st, bardic music
Benefit: As a swift action, you can expend a pre-
pared spell ora spell slot to extend the duration of
your bardic music abiliry after you stop perform-
ing, You extend the duration a number of
rounds equal to the level of the spell
used in this manner, This

 

Tus, by E. Fiegenschub

extension is in addition to
the normal duration of
the effect after you stop
your performance.
You can expend
only one spell slot
to extend the du-
ration of your
bardic music

    
  
    
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
   

   

The slot can come from any of your arcane caster classes,
nor just bard.

This has no effect on bardic music or similar abilities with
a duration of instantaneous or permanent

ARCANE CONSUMPTION

You can sacrifice your physical health to strengthen a spell
This process leaves you wracked with pain, but the enhanced
energy you draw from the spell might provide the
between victory and defeat

margin

Prerequisites: Arcane Toughness, Toughness, arcane
caster level 6th.

Benefit: Once per day as a swift action, you can grant the
next spell you cast a +4 bonus on its save DC. You must cast
and complete this spell on the same turn thar you use a swift
action to activate this fear. In return, you take a —4 penalry
to Constitution for 12 hours and are fatigued.

ARCANE FLOURISH

You use your magical abilities to improve your performance
talents, By bleeding magical energy into your singing, oratory,
or other abilities, you enhance the pitch and sound, project
your voice with a more commanding tone, and so forth.
Prerequisites: Perform 4 ranks, arcane caster level 1st
Benefit: As a swift action, you can expend a prepared spell
or spell slot to grant your next Perform check a competence
bonus equal to 1 + the level of the spell or slot. You must
make a check within 1 minute of using
this feat, or the energy you expend
dissipates with no effect

ARCANE THESIS

You have studied a single

 

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   

spell in-depth. Your
expertise grants you
formidable though
narrowly focused
arcane mastery.
¥. Prerequisites:
- Knowledge (arcana)
9ranks, ability tocast
arcane spells.

   

Strike to get the drop

  

mt giant
