      
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
   
  
   
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

Benefit: Choose one arcane spell that you can cast to be your
thesis spell. When casting that spell, you do so at +2 caster level
When you apply a metamagic feat other than Heighten Spell
to that spell, the enhanced spell uses up a spell slot one level
lower than normal. For example, an empowered thesis spell

 

 

uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spells actual slot
rather than the normal two levels higher)

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a

new spell

ARCANE TOUGHNESS

You draw upon the power of your magic to sustain yourself
allowing you to continue fighting long after your physical
body has failed you.

Prerequisites: Toughness, arcane caster level 3rd

Benefit; You can expend a prepared spell or spell slot as
an immediate action when you are reduced to 0 or fewer hit
points. You heal a number of points of damage equal to the
level of the spell or spell slot used in this manner, You cannot
use this ability to negate effects that disable you without
causing hit point damage, such as a medusa’s ability to turn
you to stone, Even if this healing does not bring you above
negative hit points, it still stabi

Using a 0-level spell with this feat grants no benefit

ARMOR SPECIALIZATION

Through long wear and hours of combat, you have trained
your body to believe in its armor. Where others flinch, you
confront. When the sword falls, your instincts, born of
bruises and rent flesh, present your cuirass, cuisse, helm, or
gorget to meet the blade at the perfect angle, causing it to
skitter off harmlessly

Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected armor type, base
attack bonus +12

Benefit: Choose one type of medium or heavy armor with

  

Ze YOU.

 

which you are proficient. When wearing masterwork armor
(including magic armor) of that type, you gain damage reduc
tion 2/—. Any time you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor
Class, you lose the benefit of this feat, because you cannot
properly deflect the blows of the enemy,

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times, Its effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a
new type of armor,

A fighter can select Armor Specialization as one of

 

 

his fighter bonus feats

BATTLE DANCER

You strike at your foes in time with the music you
sing or in cadence with an oration you deliver. The
magical power of your bardic performance drives you
forward and improves your fighting ability.
Prerequisites; Base attack bonus +2, bardic music
Benefit: During a round in which you grant any ally a
bonus on attack rolls, damage rolls, or saves with one of
your bardic music abilities, you gain a +2 morale bonus
on your attack rolls if you move at least one square
before attacking, You lose this benefit for the remaining

duration of your current use of bardic music if you do not
move or if you do not attack on your turn. If you stand still
and attack (or move without attacking), you do not gain this
feat’s benefit, but this ability's duration continues.

Special: A fighter can select Battle Dancer as one of his
hter bonus feats.

BONDED FAMILIAR

You enjoy a stronger than normal magical bond with your

 

 

 

familiar, granting you access to two special abilities

Prerequisite: Familiar

Benefit: As long as your familiar is within 30 feet of you,
the two of you can share the damage from a single deadly
attack. Once per day, if an attack would drop your familiar
to Oor fewer hit points, you can instead choose to accept that
damage. In addition, once per day, your familiar can choose
to take the damage from a single attack or effect that would
reduce you to 0 or fewer hit points. This ability applies only

 

 

to attacks or effects that deal hit point damage. You or your
familiar could not absorb the effect of a spell such as flesh
to stone

BOUNDING ASSAULT
You can move and attack with superior speed and power,
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, Spring Attack
base attack bonus +12

 

 

yuruy 2 <q -supty

 

Benefit: When using the Spring Attack feat, you designate
two foes rather than one. Your movement does not provoke
attacks of opportunity from either of these foes. While using
an attack action with the Spring Attack feat, you can
make a second attack with a -5 penalty, You can
use both attacks against one of the opponents
targeted with this feat, or split your ateacks
between them.

 

Accompaniment channels magical energy into G

    
