Benefit: If your familiar holds the charge fora touch spell,
it does not provoke an attack of opportunity for entering an
opponent's square

COMBAT TACTICIAN

You excel at approaching an opponent from an unexpected
direction to deliver deadly attacks. As you approach your foe,
you duck and weave to confuse his defenses. Alternatively,
you draw a weapon and make a quick attack that surprises
your foe.

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, base attack bonus +12.

Benefit: You can designate one specific foe as the target of
this feat asa free action. If neither you nor the target threatens
each other at the start of your turn, you gain a +2 bonus on
melee damage against that target during your turn

COMETARY COLLISION

You are a thunderbolt of destruction on the battlefield. By
carefully timing your charge, you rush forward and slam into
an enemy just as he gathers the speed needed to charge you
You rurn your opponent's momentum against him.

Prerequisites: Str 13, Improved Bull Rush, Power
Attack

Benefit: You can ready a standard action to use this feat
when an opponent charges you or any other target. At any
point during your opponent's charge, you can charge him
In place of the normal charge benefits, you gain +2 on your

 

attack roll and +4 on your damage roll. Your foe loses the
benefits of charging (but nor the penalties) bur can still
attack you. If the target charged someone else, he can choose
to instead attack you. You take the standard —2 penalty to

 

AC for charging.

Ifyou cannot move at least 10 feet or cannot charge due to
terrain or other factors, you do not gain this fear's benefit. In
either case, you use your readied action to move but do not
gain an attack

Special: A fighter can select Cometary Collision as one of
his fighter bonus feats

COMPANION SPELLBOND

You form a special magical link with your animal com-
panion, allowing you to share spells with it over a greater
distance

Prerequisite: Animal companion

Benefit: You use your companion’s share spells ability out
toa range of 30 feet, rather than the standard 5 feet. You can

 

cast touch spells to affect your companion at a greater range
than normal. You can change a spell’s range from touch to
short (range of 25 feet + 5 feet per two caster levels) if the

spell targets only your companion

CROSSBOW SNIPER

You are skilled in lining up accurate, deadly shots with
your crossbow, Perhaps you add custom-made sights to your
weapon, or you have learned to maximize the stability and
precision the weapon offers,

 

Prerequisites: Proficiency with hand, heavy, or light
crossbow, Weapon Focus with hand, heavy, or light crossbow,
base attack bonus +1

Benefit
Weapon Focus feat, you gain a bonus on damage rolls equal
to 1/2

If you have the skirmish or sneak attack ability, the maxi-
mum range at which you can make such attacks increases

 

7hen using a crossbow for which you have the

‘our Dexterity bonus.

 

 

   
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
 
    

4 fq "sunny

wurmsopty
