 
  
 
 
 
   
 

  
     

to 60 feet when you are using a crossbow for which you have
the Weapon Focus feat

Special: A fighter can select Crossbow Sniper as one of

his fighter bonus feats.

CRUSHING STRIKE

You wield a bludgeoning weapon with superior power, allow:
ing you to batter aside an opponent's defenses.

Prerequisites: Proficiency with a bludgeoning weapon,
Weapon Focus with a bludgeoning weapon, Weapon Mastery
(bludgeoning), Weapon Specialization with a bludgeoning
weapon, base attack bonus +14

Benefit: When you use a full attack action while fighting
with any bludgeoning weapon, each attack that connects beats
down your foe's defenses, granting a cumulative +1 bonus on
attack rolls until the end of your current turn

CUNNING EVASION

When an area attack detonates around you, you use the chaos
and flash of energy to duck out of sight

Prerequisites: Hide 9 ranks, evasion

Benefit: If you are caught within an area attack whose
damage you avoid completely due to your evasion or improved
a combined Hide check and
5-foot step as an immediate action. You can attempt this
check only if there is cover suitable for a Hide check, and
you can take your 5-foot step into cover before making your
Hide attempt

Special: If you have the hide in plain sight class feature,
you do not need cover near you to attempt the Hide check
allowed by this feat.

DAMPEN SPELL

From the lowliest prestidigitator to the most august hiero
phant, spellcasters both arcane and divine recognize the
power of counterspelling. You are no exception. You have
learned to channel energy into a foe's spell to weaken its
effects. Although you fail to nullify the spell, you render it
much easier to resist.

Prerequisite: Improved Counterspell.

   

   

 

 

Benefit: You can use an immediate action to attempt to
dampen an enemy's spell, As with counterspelling, you must
identify the target spell as itis being cast. If you successfully
identify it, you can expend any spell or spell slot to dampen
your opponent's incantation. Because of your hasty, immedi-
ate casting, you do not fully counter the target spell. Instead,
you subtract the level of the spell or spell slot you expend
from the save DC of your opponent's spell

DEADEYE SHOT

You carefully line up a ranged attack, timing it precisely
so that you hit your opponent when his guard is down.
When your target is busy dealing with an ally's melee attack,
you strike.

Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack
bonus +4, skirmish or sneak attack ability.

Benefit: By firing just as your ally connects with a blow,
you take advantage of the distraction to strike the same enemy

 

 

  
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
  

   

when his guard is ruined. If you ready a ranged attack to
occur when an ally strikes a particular target, and your ally
succeeds, that target loses his Dexterity bonus to AC against
your atta

Special: A fighter can select De:
fighter bonus feats.

DEFENSIVE SWEEP

You sweep your weapon through the area you threaten,
warding away opponents and forcing them to move away or
suffer a fearsome blow.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +15.

Benefit: If an opponent begins his action adjacent to you
and does not move, he provokes an attack of opportunity
from you immediately after his turn ends, provided thar you
threaten the square that he occupies. Any sort of movement,
including a 5-foot step, allows the opponent to avoid provek-
ing this special attack of opportunity, This feat does not give
you any ability to make additional attacks of opportunity in
agiven round.

 

Jeye Shot as one of his

 

Special: A fighter can select Defensive Sweep as one of
his fighter bonus feats.

DRIVING ATTACK

When you strike an opponent with a piercing weapon, the
brutal impact of your strike sends him sprawling.

Prerequisites; Proficiency with selected piercing weapon,
Weapon Focus with selected piercing weapon, Weapon Mas-
tery (piercing), Weapon Specialization with selected piercing
weapon, base attack bonus +14.

Benefit: If you use a full-round action to make a single
melee attack with any piercing weapon and succeed in hit
ting, you can initiate a special bull rush attempt against the
target. This bull rush uses your total bonus on damage rolls
in place of your Strength modifier. You do not provoke an
attack of opportunity with this bull rush, and you cannot
move forward with your opponent.

If you succeed in pushing an opponent back 10 feet or
more, you can reduce the distance you push him by 10
feet, In return, your foe falls prone in the square where
he ends his movement, Note that by reducing the distance
you push your opponent, you can have him fall prone in
his current space

ELVEN SPELL LORE

You have studied the mighty arcane traditions of the elves,
granting you insight into the intricate workings of magic
and the theoretical structures behind spells.

Prerequisites: Int 17 or elf, Knowledge (arcan
ranks,

  

 

 

12

Benefit: Your understanding of the elven secrets of magic
grants you two benefits. When you cast dispel magic or greater
dispel magic, you gain a +2 bonus on your caster level check
Your understanding of magic allows you to more easily
unravel the power that sustains a foe's spell.

In addition, your knowledge of magic grants you rare
insights into forgotten spell lore. Choose a single spell in your
spellbook when you take this feat. When preparing that spell,
