you can alter the type of damage it deals toa single type of
your choice, You must make this choice when preparing the
spell (those who do not prepare spells cannot benefit from
this aspect of the feat). You can prepare the spell multiple
times, selecting the same or a different energy type for it
with each preparation.

You can gain this feat multiple times, The caster level bonus
does not stack, and each time you take the feat, a different
spell must be chosen.

FADE INTO VIOLENCE

While the chaos of battle swirls around you, you rely on your
ability to slip into the background to avoid your enemy's
notice. Your frightened demeanor and pitiable appearance
causes your opponents to seek out other targets.

Prerequisites: Bluff 6 ranks, Hide 6 ranks.

Benefit: When you wear no armor or lightarmorand carry
nothing in your hands, your opponents might assume that
you are an ineffectual fighter, Asan immediate action, choose
a single target for this feat. If rhat opponent threatens both
you and one of your allies, that foe strikes your ally rather than
you unless he succeeds on a Sense Motive check opposed by
your Bluff check. If your foe is larger than you, you gain a +4
bonus on your Bluff check, You lose this benefit if you attack
any opponent or target an opponent with a spell. This benefit
does not apply to ranged attacks or attacks of opportunity
that you provoke,

Once you choose a target for this feat, you cannot switch
to a new target for the rest of the encounter.

FIERY FIST

By channeling your ki energy, you sheathe your limbs in
magical fire. Your unarmed strikes deal extra fire damage

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Wis 13, Improved Unarmed Strike,
Stunning Fist, base attack bonus +8.

Benefit: Asa swift action, you can expend one of your uses
of the Stunning Fist feat to surround your fists and feet in
flame. For the rest of your turn, you gain an extra td6 points
of fire damage on your unarmed strikes.

When you select this fear, you gain an additional daily use
of Stunning Fist.

Special: A fighter can select Fiery Fist as one of his fighter
bonus feats. A monk with the Stunning Fist fear can select
Fiery Fist as her bonus feat at 2nd level, e
meet the other prerequisites

FIERY KI DEFENSE

You channel your ki energy into a cloak of flame that injures
all who attempt to strike you

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Wis 13, Fiery Fist, Improved
Unarmed Strike, Stunning Fist, base attack bonus +8.

Benefit: As a swift action, you can expend one of your
uses of the Stunning Fist feat to cloak yourself in flame
Any creature thar strikes you with a melee attack takes dé
points of fire damage. This benefit lasts until the start of
your next turn.

Special: A fighter can select Fiery Ki Defense as one of his
fighter bonus feats. A monk with the Stunning Fist feat can

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nif she does not

  

 

 

select Fiery Ki Defense as her bonus feat at 8th level, as long
as she also possesses the Fiery Fist feat (other prerequisites
can be ignored).

FLAY

When fighting unarmored opponents, you excel at twist-
ing your weapon just before impact. This motion rips and
tears at your foe's flesh, causing intense pain. This attack is
wholly ineffective against armored foes, but it tears through
natural defenses.

Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack.

Benefit: When you use your Power Attack feat with
a slashing or piercing weapon against a foe who lacks an
armor bonus to AC, you inflict horrid pain on your target
If your attack hits, your opponent must make a Fortitude
save {DC 10+ your damage bonus from Power Attack on the
strike). If this save fails, he takes a—2 penalty on attacks
for 1 round.

You can use this feat once per round against a given target.

Special: A fighter can select Flay as one of his fighter
bonus feats.

GRENADIER

You are skilled in using grenadelike weapons. You excel at
tossing them co just the right spot to maximize the amount of
damage they cause as they burst open upon the battlefield

Benefit: You are an expert with splash weapons and all
manner of incendiary mixtures. You gain a+1 bonus on attack
rolls with splash weapons and a +1 bonus on the weapon's
damage (including splash damage).

Special: A fighter can select Grenadier as one of his fighter
bonus feats

HINDERING OPPORTUNIST

When you have a chance to strike a distracted foe, you instead
use that opportunity to aid or protect an ally against him.
Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, base attack bonus +3.
Benefit: Whenever an opponent provokes an attack of
opportunity from you, you can choose to replace that attack
with an aid another action targeting that opponent.

INTIMIDATING STRIKE

You make display of your combat prowess designed to strike
terror in your foe, Your stance, attack method, and demeanor
demonstrate to your foe that you are capable of defeating him
with little effort. Your intent is clear—if you decide to hit
your foe, you could easily slay him

Prerequisites; Intimidate 4 ranks.

Benefit: As a standard action, you make a single melee
attack against your foe, You subtract a number from this
attack equal to or less than your base attack bonus. If your
attack hits, you can make an Intimidate check against the foe
you struck, with a bonus equal to the number you subtracted
from your attack roll. If this check succeeds, your opponent is
shaken for the rest of the encounter. You cannot use this feat
to worsen an opponent's fear condition beyond shaken.

Special: A fighter can select Intimidating Strike as one of
his fighter bonus feats.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
