   
  
   
 
    
  
  
   

INDOMITABLE SOUL

Your physical toughness translates into greater mental
resiliency. Where others cave in to magical effects that alter
their minds, you stand resolute.

Prerequisites: Endurance, Iron Will

Benefit; Whenever you make a Will save against a mind-
affecting or fear ability, you can roll 2420 and use the higher
of the two die rolls.

KEEN-EARED SCOUT

Your sharp sense of hearing allows you to determine much
more about your surroundings.

Prerequisites: Listen 6 ranks, Alertness or Skill Focus
(Listen).

Benefit: When you make a Listen check, you might learn
more than normal about a source of noise.

If you beat the Listen DC by 5 or more, you determine the
size, speed, and direction of the source of noise

If you beat the DC by 10 or more, you determine the
precise, current position of the creature or object thar caused
the sound.

If you beat the DC by 15 or more, you determine the
type of armor the creature wears and what it carries, if
anything.

If you bear the DC by 20 or more, you learn the creature's
type and subtypes.

‘The information you learn is cumulative. For example,
if you got a Listen check result of 35 against a DC of 23,
you gain the information for beating the check by 10 and
by 5. These benefits apply to both standard and opposed
Listen checks.

Also, you gain a +5 bonus on Listen checks to pinpoint
invisible creatures.

KI BLAST

You focus your ki into a ball of energy thar you can hurl at

 

 

an opponent.

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Wis 13, Fiery Fist, Improved
Unarmed Strike, Stunning Fist, base attack bonus +8

Benefit: You can expend rwo daily uses of your Stunning
Fist fear as a move action to create an orb of raw ki energy.
You can then throw the seething orb as a standard action
with a range of 60 feet. This ranged touch attack
damage equal to 3d6 points + your Wis modifier, The ki orb

 

deals

is a force effect

If you fail to throw the orb before the end of your rurn, it
dissipates harmlessly

When you take this feat, you gain an additional daily use
of Stunning Fist.

Special: A fighter can select Ki Blast as one of his fighter
bonus feats. A monk with the Stunning Fist feat can select
Ki Blast as her bonus fear at Sth level, as long as she pos-
sesses the Fiery Fist feat and a base attack bonus of +6 (other
prerequisites can be ignored)

LEAP OF THE HEAVENS

Your excellent athletic ability and superior conditioning
allow you to make near-superhuman leaps.

    

   
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
   
 
    
 

Prerequisite: Jump 4 ranks.

Benefit: When making a Jump check, the DC for the
check doesn’t double if you fail to move 20 feet in a straight
line prior to jumping. Lf you do move 20 feet ina straight line
before attempting a jump, you gain a +5 competence bonus
on your check.

Normal: All Jump checks require a 20-foot running start
to avoid doubling the DC of the check.

LUNGING STRIKE

You make a single attack against a foe who stands just beyond
your reach.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +6

Benefit: As a full-round action, you can make a single
strike with a 5-foot bonus to your artack’s reach. This benefit
applies to both armed and unarmed attacks, including touch
attacks made to deliver spells.
Special: A fighter can select Lunging Strike as one of his
hrer bonus fears.

LURKING FAMILIAR

Your familiar hides within the folds of your robe or takes
cover behind you as your opponents close in. When it
moves to attack, its sudden appearance might catch your
foe by surprise

Prerequisites: Combat Familiar, arcane caster level 6th,
familiar.

Benefit: If your familiar occupies your square, it gains
cover against all attacks. As a consequence, it can make a
Hide check to avoid your foe's notice, Lf your familiar then
leaves your space to attack an opponent, it gains the normal
benefit for attacking from a hidden position.

MAD FOAM RAGER

You fight with the rage that only a rabid badger or a beer-
addled dwarf can bring to bear. In combat, you shrug off
attacks and continue fighting even in the fa
injuries and effects.

Prerequisite: Rage or frenzy ability.

Benefit: When fighting, you can endure tremendous
blows with little visible effect. As an immediate action,
you can choose to delay the effect of a single attack, spell,
or ability used against you. The damage or effect does not
take hold unril the end of your next turn. You can only use
this ability while under the effect of your rage or frenzy

 

 

 

ability. You can activate it once every time you use your rage
or frenzy ability,

MASTER MANIPULATOR

Your words are your weapons. You confuse others with your
speech, luring them into giving up vital secrets and leav-
ing them dumbfounded with your carefully constructed,
conversational static

Prerequisites: Cha 13, Diplomacy 9 ranks.

Benefit: This feat grants two new uses for the Diplo:
macy skill. You must share a language with a creature
to use these options against it. Neither ability functions
during combat

 
