    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
 
 

  
  
 
 
   
  
 

     

RANGED WEAPON MASTERY

You have mastered a wide range of weapons. Your training
with one specific weapon now extends to other weapons of
a similar sort

Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon
Focus with selected weapon, Weapon Specialization with
selected weapon, base attack bonus +8

Benefit: When you select this feat, choose bludgeoning,
piercing, or slashing. You must have Weapon Focus and
Weapon Specialization with a ranged weapon that deals
this rype of damage. When using any ranged weapon that
has the damage type you selected, you gain a +2 bonus on
attacks and a +2 bonus on damage. In addition, you incre
its range increment by 20 feet

Special: You can select this feat more than once, Each
time, you can select a new damage type

A fighter can choose Ranged Weapon Mastery as one of
his fighter bonus feats.

RAPID BLITZ

You charge across the battlefield, combining your speed and
fighting ability to move and attack with unmatched skill

Prerequisites; Dex 13, Bounding Assault, Dodge, Mobil.
ity, Spring Attack, base attack bonus +18.

Benefit: You can designate a third target for your Spring
Attack feat. In addition to the second attack you gain from
your Bounding Assault feat, you can make a third atrack
with a—10 penalty.

ROBILAR’S GAMBIT

By offering Robilar’s Gambit, you absorb damage to place
yourself in an advantageous position. This dangerous sacrifice
is not for the unfit or the unwise, for one failed retaliatory
strike can undo the advantage gained. Lord Robilar, a rash
and impetuous fighter, gained fame using this technique
against his enemies.

Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, base attack bonus +12

Benefit: At the start of your action, you can adopt a
fighting stance that exposes you to harm but allows you to
take advantage of your opponents’ exposed defenses as they
reach in to attack you, Anyone who strikes at you gains a
+4 bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls against you, In
return, they provoke attacks of opportunity from you each
time the

 

ase

 

 

 

swing. Resolve your attack of opportunity after
attack

  

your foe
Normal; Opponents do not provoke attacks of opportunity
by attacking, Further, when an opponent provokes an attack
of opportunity, you resolve your attack before he completes
the action that provoked the attack of opportunity.
Special: A fighter can select Robilar’s Gambit as one of his
fighter bonus feats

SHIELD SLING

You can hurl your shield as a deadly missile, rurning it from
a defensive item toa crushing, thrown weapon

Prerequisites: Proficiency with shields, Improved Shield
Bash, Shield Specialization, base attack bonus +9

   

Benefit: You can wield your light shield or heavy shield
as a thrown weapon with a range increment of 20 feet. The
shield deals damage as normal for its size (see Table 75, PH
116), and you gain your Strength bonus on damage as normal
for a thrown weapon. In addition, you can make a ranged
touch attack to initiate a trip attempt. Your target resists the
trip attempt as normal. You lose your size bonus (though not
a size penalty) on your Strength check. If your foe's check
succeeds, he cannot attempt to trip you.

You cannot throw a tower shield. You can throw a buckler,
but it does no damage, and you cannot use it to trip an
opponent

Special: A fighter can select S
fighter bonus feats.

SHIELD SPECIALIZATION

You are skilled in usinga shield, allowing you to gain greater
defensive benefits from it

Prerequisite: Proficiency with shields

Benefit: Choose one type of shield from the following list:
buckler, heavy, or light. When using a shield of the appropri-
ate type ase its shield bonus to AC by 1.

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, choose a different type of shield.

A fighter can select Shield Specialization as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

SHIELD WARD

You use your shield like a wall of steel and wood. When an
opponent attempts to draw in close to you, your shield force
him away or ruins his attacks.

Prerequisite: Proficiency with shields, Shield
Specialization.

Benefit: You apply your shield bonus to your touch AC,
and on checks or rolls to resist bull rush, disarm, grapple,
overrun, or trip attempts against you.

Special: A fighter can select Shield Ward as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

SHORT HAFT

You have trained in polearm fighting alongside your com-

 

hield Sling as one of his

 

pu inc!

   

 

 

s

 

rades in arms, sometimes reaching past them while they
shield you, and sometimes shielding them while they attack
from behind you

Prerequisites: Proficiency with a reach weapon, Weapon
Focus with a reach weapon, base attack bonus +3.

Benefit: Asa swift action, you can choose to lose the ben-
efit of wielding any reach weapon other than a spiked chain
ora whip, In return, you can use that weapon to threaten
and artack spaces adjacent to you. With another swift action,
you can give up this feat’s benefit in order to regain the use
of your weapon's superior reach.

Special: A fighter can select Short Haft as one of his fighter
bonus feats

SLASHING FLURRY

You swing your weapon with uncanny speed, slicing apart a
foe in the blink of an eye.
