Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected slashing weapon,
Weapon Focus with selected slashing weapon, Weapon Mas-
tery (slashing), Weapon Specialization with selected slashing
weapon, base attack bonus +14,

Benefit: When you use a standard action to attack with
any slashing weapon, you can choose to make a second attack
with that weapon, You take a —5 penalty on the first attack,
and a 10 penalty on the second.

When you use a full attack action with any slashing
weapon, you gain one additional attack at your highest base
artack bonus. That attack and all other attacks you make in
the current round take a—5 penalty.

SPECTRAL SKIRMISHER

You have trained extensively in the use of magic that renders
you invisible. In combat, you use this experience to vex your
opponents and increase your survivability.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +6.

Benefit: While you are invisible, you gain additional
benefits. Creatures unable to see you due to invisibility take
a—S5 penalty on all Listen checks to detect you. A creature
using a melee attack against the square you occupy provokes
an attack of opportunity from you. You must choose to make
this artack before checking to see if the creature finds you
If you attack and hit, the creature automatically finds you in
your square. See page 152 of the Player's Handbook and page
295 of the Dungeon Master's Guide for the effects of invisibility
on combar,

Special: A fighter can select Spectral Skirmisher as one
of his fighter bonus feats,

SPELL-LINKED FAMILIAR

You and your familiar can share spell energy, allowing your
familiar to cast a limited number of spells each day
Prerequisites: Arcane caster level 9th, familiar.
Benefit: Your familiar can cast spells that you grant to it
A familiar gains spells based on your arcane caster level, and
any spells granted to your familiar are subtracted from your
daily allotment.
The maximum number of spells of a certain level that you

  

 

  

 

 

can grant to your familiar is given on the table below. For
example, as a 16th-level arcane caster, you can grant your
familiar as many as three 0-level spells, two 1st-level spells

and one 2nd-level spell

 

——Spell Level

Caster Level 0 Ist 2nd
9th-Tth 1 = =—
12th-14th 2 a

1Sth-17th 3 2 1
18th-20th a 3 2

The familiar uses 1/2 your caster level as its caster level. It
cannot cast spells that have a gp or XP cost, or that require
a focus. A familiar does not need somatic, material, or
verbal components to cast a spell that was granted to it by
this feat

STALWART DEFENSE

You excel at aiding your allies in bartle. When an opponent
attempts to strike one of them, you make a quick, distracting
motion to ruin the foe's efforts.

Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, Hindering Opportunist,
base attack bonus +9.

Benefit: When an opponent you threaten attempts a melee
attack against one of yourallies, you can give up one of your
attacks of opportunity to attempt an aid another action. You
target the attacking opponent with the aid another, The
target of your foe's attack gains the benefit of your action in
the form of a +2 bonus to AC against the attempted attack.
You cannot use this feat against the same opponent more
than once per round,

STEADFAST DETERMINATION

Your physical durability allows you to shrug off attacks that
would cripple a lesser person. Rather than depend on agility
or willpower, you use your raw toughness to survive.

Prerequisites: Endurance

Benefit: You can use your Constitution modifier in place
of your Wisdom modifier on Will saves.

You do not automatically fail Fortitude saves on a roll of
natural 1

TELLING BLOW

When you strike an opponent's vital areas, you draw on
your ability to land crippling blows to make the most of
your attack,

Prerequisite: Skirmish or sneak attack ability.

Benefit: When you score a critical hit against a target, you
deal your skirmish or sneak attack damage in addition to
the damage from your critical hit. Your critical multiplier
applies only to your normal damage, not your skirmish or
sneak attack damage. This benefit affects both melee and
ranged attacks.

TROPHY COLLECTOR

A belt of minotaur fur, a hood of cloaker wing-skin, and an
amulet fashioned from a petrified dragon's eye—these are
the intimidating symbols of your trade. You are skilled in
preserving portions of defeated enemies and turning them
into trophies, The memory of your past accomplishments
drives you onward, instilling in you the confidence needed
to face still greater foes.

Prerequisite: Craft (taxidermy) 6 ranks.

Benefit: When you defeara foe in combat, you can preserve
a part of its body and create a trophy that you can wear or
brandish. In order to be worthy of your efforts, the opponent
must have a CR greater than your current level

A trophy has a value equal to the defeated creature's CR
x 100 gp. You must spend time using the Craft (taxidermy)
skill to create the trophy as normal. Once you create a trophy,
you can sell it for its market price or wear it. When you create
a trophy, you must design it to occupy space on your body
as one of these kinds of magic items: amulet, belt, boots, or
cloak. You cannot gain the benefit of both a magic item and
atrophy if both occupy the same space on your body; in such

 

 

 

  

   

 

       

 

 
