Mus, by R. Spencer

 
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
     

, the object you donned last becomes functional and
the other object does not work.

While wearing a trophy, you gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate
checks per trophy against creatures of the same type as the
trophy, except for outsiders and humanoids. In these two
cases, the target must share the same subtype as the creature
from which you crafted the trophy. You take a —4 penalty
on Diplomacy checks against creatures of the
same type or subtype as one or more of your
worn trophies.

For each trophy you wear,
you gain a +1 bonus on
saves against fear ef-
fects. Once per day,
you gain a morale bo-
nus on a single Will
save equal to the num
ber of trophies you wear.
In this case, you draw
upon the memories of past
victories to strengthen your re-
solve, If you choose to take
this morale bonus on a
save against a fear ef
fect, it stacks with
the usual +t bonus

ac

 

on saves per tro-
phy worn
Specia
can only craft 7
trophies from cor-
poreal creatures that
you actively helped de-
fear. You cannot craft
trophies from oozes.

TUMBLING FEINT

When you move near an opponent, your acrobatic ma-
neuvers leave him confused and unable to properly defend
himself

Prerequisites: Bluff + ranks, Tumble + ranks

Benefit: As a swift action at the start of your turn, you
designate a single opponent as the target of this feat. If you
successfully use your Tumble skill to avoid provoking an
attack of opportunity from that opponent, you gain a-+5 bonus
on your next Bluff check to feint against him. You must use
this benefit on or before your next turn.

For example, Lidda designates a nearby ogre as the target
of this feat. She tumbles into the ogre’s threatened area and
continues to tumble past the creature, moving to a square
from which she plans to make a melee attack against the ogre
Lidda succeeds on her Tumble check to avoid provoking an

 

You

 

attack of opportunity from the ogre, and she moves into her
destination square. She can now use a standard action to feint
the ogre, applying the benefit of this feat on her Bluff check,
or she can take any other sort of standard action, including
t the ogre. Li'she chooses

 

making anormal melee attack aga

tches a red slaad twice
ing Tu

    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
   

   

not to feint immediately, she can wait until her next turn
and still gain this fear's benefit

Special: A fighter can select Tumbling Feint as one of his
fighter bonus feats

   
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   

TWO-WEAPON
POUNCE
When you charge an
opponent while wield-
ing two weapons,
ws you can make rwo
ai sig quick attacks. You
aos trade the momen-
ae tum and power of
the charge for the
opportunity to use your sec
ond weapon.
Prerequisites: Dex 15,
Two-Weapon Fighting, base
attack bonus +6
Benefit: When you are
making a charge and wield.
ing weapons in both hands,
you can attack with both of
your weapons. If you do so,
you lose the bonus on attack rolls
normally granted by a charge. The
2 penalty to AC from charging
still applies
Normal: When making a
charge, you get a single attack at
the end of your movement.
Special: A fighter can
select Two-Weapon Pounce
as one of his fighter bonus feats
A ranger who has chosen the two-
weapon combat style can select Two-Weapon
Pounce as long as he has a base attack bonus of +6 and is
wearing light armor or no armor

TWO-WEAPON REND

You wield two weapons with an artisan’s precision, Each
strike builds on the next, allowing you to deal more damag

Prerequisites: Dex 15, Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack
bonus +11

o-Weapan Rend

   

Benefit: If you successfully hit an opponent with both
of the weapons you wield, you deal extra damage equal to
ide + 1-1/2 times your Strength bonus. This extra damage
is treated as the same type that your off-hand weapon deals
normally for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction
and other effects related to damage type. You can gain this
extra damage once per round against a given opponent.

Special: A fighter can select Two-Weapon Rend as one of
his fighter bonus fears. A ranger who has chosen the rwo-
weapon combat style can select Two-Weapon Rend as long as
he has a base attack bonus of +11 and is wearing light armor
or no armor.

 

 
