VATIC GAZE

Your arcane studies have brought forth your nascent talent
to sense magical auras and the power that others are capable
of wielding

Prerequisite: Arcane caster level 9th.

Benefit: You can use detect magic at will.

Also, as a swift action, you can attempt to determine an
opponent's spellcasting ability. You make a Sense Motive
check (DC § + target's caster level). If this check succeeds,
you learn the highest-level spells the target is capable of
casting. This benefit grants you no insight into spell-like or
supernatural abilities.

VERSATILE UNARMED STRIKE

You employ a variety of unarmed fighting styles, allowing
you to alter the type of damage your attacks deal.

Prerequisite: Improved Unarmed Strike.

Benefit: As a swift action, you can opt for your unarmed
strikes to deal your choice of bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing damage. Once you make this choice, your unarmed
strikes continue to deal the chosen damage type until you
use another swift action to change it

Special: A fighter can select Versatile Unarmed Strike as
one of his fighter bonus feats.

VEXING FLANKER

You excel at picking apart an opponent's defenses when your
allies also threaten him.

Prerequisite: Combat Reflexes

Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on your attack rolls when
flanking

Normal; Flanking grants a +2 bonus on attack rolls.

Special: A fighter can select Vexing Flanker as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

WANDERER’S DIPLOMACY

Many halflings journey far and wide across the world, spend-
ing no more than a few months in one place. You have spent
time among the halflings, or you are a halfling yourself. Your
exposure to that race's nomadic way of life has taught you
veral useful methods of dealing with strangers.
Prerequisites; Halfling or 4 ranks in Bluff, Diplomacy,
and Sense Motive.

Benefit: You excel in using your words and wit to make
your way in the world. This feat grants you three separate
abilities.

Canny Merchant: Youcan make a Diplomacy check to track
down an item that is normally too expensive to be purchased
in the town or settlement where you are currently located
The DC of this check is 10 + (the item's gp cost minus the
community's gp limit, divided by 1,000). If this check suc-
ceeds, you learn of a merchant who can supply the item to
you. You must still purchase it as normal

Intuitive Communication; When you are faced with a
creature whose language you do not understand, you can
attempt to communicate with it by making a successful Sense
Motive check. This check requires that you spend at least 1
minute listening to the creature and watching its gestures

 

 

 

and demeanor. The check’s base DC is 20. If the creature is
not the same type as you, the DC is 30.

With a successful check, you learn the basic gist of the
creature's speech. This ability gives you no special ralent to
speak the creature's tongue.

Social Agility: You can temporarily alter a creature's attitude
toward you. You can use Bluff against an unfriendly or less
hostile creature in the same way you use Diplomacy, Using
Bluffin this manner is a standard action that takes no special
penalties, The target's attitude remains changed for 1 minute.
After this time, it becomes one grade more hostile than where
it started for 10 minutes.

WATER SPLITTING STONE

You channel your ki energy to splinter the defenses of crea-
tures whose tough hides or magical natures normally allow
them to shrug off your blow:

Prerequisite: Dex 13, Wis 13, Improved Unarmed Strike,
Stunning Fist, base attack bonus +9.

Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on damage rolls when you
make an unarmed strike against an opponent whose damage
reduction is effective against your unarmed strikes. This feat's
benefit does not apply against a target if its damage reduction
does not apply to your attacks. For example, a monk with ki
strike (adamantine) does not gain the bonus on damage rolls
against a foe with damage reduction that affects attacks with
adamantine weapon:

Special: A fighter can select Water Splitting Stone as one
of his fighter bonus feats. A monk with the Stunning Fist
featcan select Water Splitting Stone as long as she has a base
artack bonus +9 (other prerequisites can be ignored).

WEAPON SUPREMACY

Youare a grandmaster in the use af your chosen weapon. When
you hold it in your hands, no foe can stand against you.

Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Greater
Weapon Focus with selected weapon, Greater Weapon Spe-
cialization with selected weapon, Weapon Focus with selected
weapon, Weapon Specialization with selected weapon,
Weapon Mastery with damage type of selected weapon,
fighter level 18th

Benefit: When fighting with the weapon that you choose
for this feat, you gain a number of additional advantages,

You gain a +4 bonus on all checks made to resist being
disarmed.

  
    

 

 

 

You can wield your weapon against a foe who grapples you
without penalty and without first making a grapple check. In
this situation, you can take a standard action or a full attack
action as normal.

When you take a full attack action, you can apply a +5
bonus to any single attack after your first strike.

Once per round before making an attack roll, you can
instead choose to treat your d20 result as a 10.

You gain a +1 bonus to AC

Special: You can choose this feat only once, fora single
specific kind of weapon. The dedication and focus it
requires makes it impossible to gain this feat for more
than one weapon

 
