 

—_______CEREMONY FEATS

A ceremony feat grants you the knowledge and training
needed to complete several specific ceremonies. Each feat
uses the Knowledge (religion) skill to gauge the depth of your
study. As you gain more ranks in that skill, the ceremonies
available through the feat increase

A creature can benefit from one ceremony at a time. If
you attempt a second ceremony on the same creature, the
first ceremony’s benefits immediately end and the second
ceremony applies.

Each ceremony has a cost in time and resources. The
ceremony consumes the materials needed for it when itends
(not when the benefit ends), If the ceremony is disrupted,
such as ifan opponent attacks before you finish, the material
components are not lost.

The two feats described below are ceremony feats, Their
prerequisites and benefits are summarized on Table 3-2

RITUAL BLESSING

You call upon the powers of goodness and light to bless your
allies. If your religious studies are advanced enough, the
rituals you learn allow you to ward against illness or poison,
enhance your healing abilities, and protect against evil.

Prerequisites: Good alignment, Knowledge (religion)
4 ranks.

Benefit: You gain access to rituals based on your ranks in
Knowledge (religion

Anoint (Knowledge [religion] 4 ranks): You speak a blessing
over the recipient of this ritual, anoint him with holy water,
and say a short prayer for him, When you cast a cure spell on
the recipient, he heals an extra 2 points of damage.

Performing this ritual requires § minutes of incantation
and a vial of holy water. Its effects last for 24 hours.

Cleanse (Knowledge [religion] 8 ranks): You sprinkle holy
water over the recipient of this ritual and speak a prayer to
his health and vigor. The target gains a 42 bonus on saves

 

 

 

against disease and poison.

Performing this ritual requires 10 minutes of incantation
and a vial of holy water. Its effects last for 24 hours

Ward (Knowledge [religion] 13 ranks): You use a special combi-
nation of powdered silver and holy water to create a mystical
ward that offers protection against demons and devils, The
recipient of this ritual gains a +1 bonus on saves against spells
and special attacks used by evil outsiders.

Performing this rirual requires 10 minutes of work, a vial
of holy water, and powdered silver worth 30 gp. Its effects
last for 24 hours.

RITUAL BLOOD BONDS

You invest your allies with the mighty power of your totem,
god, or similar divine entity, These rituals allow you to forge
bonds between warriors that stand the test of combat.

Prerequisites: Orc or half-orc, Knowledge (religion)
4ranks.

Benefit: You gain access to rituals based on your total
tanks in Knowledge (religion

Blood Brothers (Knowledge [religion] 4 ranks); You gather up
to six of your allies together in a circle. h member of this

 

 

circle pledges allegiance to the others, cuts himself, and
bleeds into a bow! containing holy water or unholy water
(as appropriate to your alignment). You then sprinkle this
mixture on yourself and the members of the circle. You and
everyone else who participated in this ritual gains a +4 morale
bonus on Will saves against fear as long as each individual
can see one other ally who took part in this ritual.

This ritual requires 10 minutes of incantation and a vial
of holy water or unholy water. Its effect lasts for 24 hours.

Vengeful Bonds of Brotherhood (Knowledge [religion] 8 ranks)
You create a close, mystical bond between you and your
allies. Up to six individuals can participate with you in
this ritual, Each participant cuts his hand, Everyone in
the ritual then clasps hands in a circle while you stand
in the middle. You speak a prayer while sprinkling holy
or unholy water on each participant. This ritual grant
benefit to its participants (including you) when an ally
falls in bartle. If an individual who participated in this
ritual sees another participant drop to 0 or fewer hit points
due to an opponent's actions, he gains a +2 morale bonus
on attack rolls against the foe who dropped his ally. The
benefit lasts for 1 minute every time it is triggered. You can
gain this bonus against multiple foes during the duration
of the effect

This ritual requires 10 minutes of incantation, a vial of
holy water or unholy water, and silver dust worth 10 gp. The
ritual’s benefit lasts for 24 hours

—___ COMBAT FORM FEATS

While most warriors draw on their strength, agility, and
toughness in battle, a few learn to tap into the true poten
tial of their minds. Somewhat like a monk, such a warrior
supplements his physical practice with rigorous mental
training to hone his fighting abilities. His mind and body
become one as he fights, allowing him to achieve unparal
leled levels of combat mastery. Being in this state of perfect
mental and physical harmony is known as maintaining a
combat focus. (Taking the feat called Combat Focus is how
a character learns to achieve this state; all other combat
form feats have Combat Focus as a prerequisite.) The task
of maintaining a combat focus is both difficult and strain:
ing. Thus, a warrior cannot remain in this state for long.
While he does, however, he can use any combat form feats
he possesses,

The six feats described below are combat form feats. Their
prerequisites and benefits are summarized on Table 3-3.

COMBAT AWARENESS

When you maintain your combat focus, you have an uncanny
ability to sense the ebb and flow of your opponents’ vitality.
As you attain greater mastery of this fighting style, you learn
to sense a foe's presence even with your eyes closed.

Prerequisites: Wis 13, Blind-Fight, Combat Focus, base
attack bonus +12

Benefit: While maintaining your combat focus, you
learn the current hit point total of each adjacent opponent
and ally.

 

   

   

 

 

 
