Taste 3~2: CEREMONY Feats
Feat
Ritual Blessing

Prerequisites
Good alignment,

Knowledge (religion) 4 ranks
Ore or half-orc,

Knowledge (religion) 4 ranks

Ritual Blood Bonds

TaBLe 3~3; ComBaT Form Feats
Feat Prerequisites
Combat Focus Wis 13
Combat Stability Wis 13, Combat Focus,
base attack bonus +3
Combat Defense
base attack bonus +6
Wis 13, Combat Focus,
base attack bonus +9

Combat Vigor

Combat Awareness
base attack bonus +12
Wis 13, Combat Focus,
any two other combat form feats,
base attack bonus +15

Combat Strike

If you have three or more combat form feats, you gain
blindsight out to $ feet.

Special: A fighter can select Combat Awareness as one of
his fighter bonus feats

COMBAT DEFENSE

The state of keen focus and mental discipline you attain in
combat allows you to shift the focus of your defense from one
opponent to another with careful, precise maneuvers,

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Wis 13, Combat Focus, Dodge,
base attack bonus +6.

Benefit: While you maintain your combat focus, you can
change the target of your Dodge feat to a new opponent as
an immediate action,

If you have three or more combat form fears, you gain an
additional +1 dodge bonus to AC against the target of your
Dodge feat.

Normal: Designating or changing the target of your Dodge
feat can only be done on your turn asa free action.

Special: A fighter can select Combat Defense as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

COMBAT FOCUS

The way of the warrior requires more than simple, brute
strength. Some warriors bring their minds to such keen
focus during the heat of battle that they can attain superhu
man levels of endurance, perception, and mental toughness.
Through intense mental exercise and training, you learn to
enter a state of perfect martial clarity.

Prerequisite: Wis 13

Benefit: In bartle, you push aside the chaos of rhe fight
and attain a focused state that grants you a keen, clear
picture of the battle, Fear and pain ebb away as you focus
solely on defeating your enemy, The first time you make
a successful attack during an encounter, you gain your
combat focus. In this state, your mind and body become
one, allowing you to overcome mundane physical limits.
You can maintain your combat focus for 10 rounds after
entering it, +1 additional round per combat form feat you

 

 

 

Dex 13, Wis 13, Combat Focus, Dodge,

Wis 13, Blind-Fight, Combat Focus,

Benefit
Gain warding rituals

Gain toughening rituals

Benefit
Enter meditative state to gain +2 bonus on Will saves
+4 against bull rush, disarm, grapple, overrun, and trip

Change target of Dodge feat as immediate action
While in focus, gain fast healing 2
Learn hit point totals of all adjacent creatures

Expend combat focus to gain bonus on attacks
and damage

possess aside from this one. You can only gain your combat
focus once per encounter.

While you are maintaining your combat focus, you gain
a42bonus on Will saves, If you have three or more combat
form fears, this bonus increases to ++.

Special: A fighter can select Combat Focus as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

COMBAT STABILITY

When you maintain your combat focus, you become difficult
to dislodge. Your muscles lock into an unyielding position,
granting you superior ability to resist trip attacks, bull rushes,
disarms, and similar effects.

Prerequisite: Wis 13, Combat Focus, base attack bonus +3.

Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on checks or rolls to resist
bull rush, disarm, grapple, overrun, and trip attempts made
against you

If you have three or more combat form feats, the bonus
granted by this feat increases to +8.

Special: A fighter can select Combat Stability as one of
his fighter bonus feats.

COMBAT STRIKE

Your intense, focused state allows you to see the one criti-
cal moment in a battle when you hang suspended between
victory and defeat. By pouring the energy required to
maintain your focus into your assault, you batter through
your foe's defenses.

Prerequisites: Wis 13, Combat Focus, any two other
combat form feats, base attack bonus +15.

Benefit: If you choose to end your combat focus as a swift
action, you gain a bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls equal
to your total number of combat form feats for the rest of your
current turn, You immediately lose all benefits of combat
form feats that affect you only while you are maintaining
your combat focus.

Special: A fighter can select Combat Strike as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

  

 
