 

Taste 3—4: Divine Feats
Feat Prerequisites
Divine Armor Divine caster level Sth,

 

Divine caster level 5th,
ability to turn or rebuke undead
Ability to turn or rebuke undead

Divine Fortune
Divine Justice

Divine Ward
Profane Aura

Ability to turn or rebuke undead

Divine caster level 9th,

ability to rebuke undead

Sacred Healing Ability to turn undead
Sacred Purification

Sacred Radiance Divine caster level 9th,

ability to turn undead

 

For the rest of the 24-hour period, you can increase the range
ofa touch spell to short range (25 feet + 5 feet per two caster
levels) if you target the warded creature, and only the warded
creature, When you cast a spell in this manner, you must
expend a turn or rebuke undead attempr.

You can create a ward between you and more than one
target, so long as you expend the necessary time and turning
attempts, You must expend a turn or rebuke undead attempt
to create each ward beyond the first

PROFANE AURA

You call upon the dark powers you worship to fill the area
around you with a dreadful mist that obscures sight.

Prerequisites: Divine caster level 9th, ability to rebuke
undead,

Benefit: As a standard action, you can expend one of your
rebuke undead attempts to fill the area around you with a
cold, clammy mist. The mist extends our in a 60-foot-radius
emanation centered on you and flows through the airas you
move, keeping you at the center of its area. The mist provides
concealment to creatures within the cloud. While in the
mist, creatures (including you) 5 feet away from each other
have concealment, and creatures separated by more than $
feet have total concealment from each other

In addition, mindless undead creatures within the cloud
gain a +2 deflection bonus to AC.

SACRED HEALING

You can channel divine energy to aid in your efforts to tend
to a comrade’s injuries, sickness, or other conditions.

Prerequisite: Ability to turn undead.

Benefit: Asa swift action, you can expend a turn undead
attempt to augment your ability to tend to the wounds of
others. You gain a +5 bonus on Heal checks and a +2 bonus
per die on the damage healed by any conjuration (healing)
spells you cast. This benefir lasts until the end of your
current turn,

SACRED PURIFICATION

You serve asa conduit of divine energy, filling the area around

you with power that aids the living and saps the undead
Prerequisites: Sacred Healing, ability to turn undead
Benefit: As a swift action, you can expend a turn undead

attempt to create a pulse of divine energy. All living

 

 

  

Sacred Healing, ability to turn undead

Benefit
Expend turn/rebuke attempt to gain DR 5/—

Expend turn/rebuke attempt for +4 bonus on next save

Expend turn/rebuke attempt, choose foe,

deal your damage or his

Increase range of spells from touch to short for ally
Create mist that grants concealment,

+2 AC for undead

Expend turn attempt for bonus on healing attempts
Expend turn attempt to heal living and harm undead
Expend turn attempt to create radius of light that
soothes allies, hampers undead

creatures within 60 feet of you heal an amount of damage
equal to 1d8 points + your Charisma bonus (if any). All undead
creatures in this area take damage equal to 1d8 points + your
Charisma bonus.

SACRED RADIANCE

You channel divine energy to fill the area around you with
asoothing, gentle radiance.

Prerequisites: Divine caster level 9th, ability to curn
undead.

Benefit: As a standard action, you can expend a turn
undead attempr to bathe yourself in light. This light provides
bright illumination in a 60-foot-radius emanation centered
on you and an additional 60 feet of shadowy illumination
beyond that area. The light moves as you move, keeping you
at the center of its area, It temporarily negates areas of magical
darkness created by spells of 3rd level or lower.

Any non-evil creature within 60 feet of you gains a +2
morale bonus on saves against fear, poison, disease, and death
effects. Evil creatures take a -2 penalty on saves against
fear effects.

This benefit lasts for 10 minutes.

——_______HERITAGE FEATS

A heritage feat signifies a specific ancestry of your character.
The heritage feats in this book allow your sorcerer to tap
into the celestial or infernal source of his magical power to
master new abilities (a sorcerer's draconic heritage source of
power is covered in Complete Arcane). You and your DM are
encouraged to come up with a background story explaining
your character's heritage, though the exact source of this
ancestral link isn't crucial to the fear’s operation (and might
remain a mystery to the character).

A character can select a heritage feat at any level. Choos-
ing a heritage feat after 1st level signifies that the ancestral
power of the character is only now manifesting itself, (A
character's first choice among these heritage feats must
be either Celestial Sorcerer Heritage or Infernal Sorcerer
Heritage, because all other heritage feats have one of these
feats as a prerequisite.)

While different sorts of heritage feats cannot normally be
combined (see page 37 of the Planar Handbook supplement), a
single sorcerer could possess draconic, infernal, and celestial

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
