3
&
2
3
5

 

 

Taste 3—5: Herivace Feats
Feat

Celestial Sorcerer Heritage

Prerequisites
Sorcerer level Ist

Celestial Sorcerer Aura
Celestial Sorcerer Lance

Celestial Sorcerer Wings

Celestial Sorcerer Lore Celestial Sorcerer Heritage,

any two other celestial sorcerer heritage feats,

sorcerer level 1st

Infernal Sorcerer Heritage Sorcerer level Ist

Infernal Sorcerer Eyes
Infernal Sorcerer Howl
Infernal Sorcerer Resistance

sorcerer heritage feats. In this case, the sorcerer claims a
truly varied family tree that includes a variety of strange
beings. Sorcerers with both infernal and celestial traits are

These casters are tormented

 

exceedingly rare, however
souls, pulled berween the polar opposites that lurk within
their blood

The nine feats described below are heritage feats, Theit
marized on Table 3-5

 

prerequisites and benefits are si

CELESTIAL SORCERER AURA

The power of your sorcerous heritage shines through

 

allowing

you to infuse rhe area around you with a menacing aura
Prerequisites: Celestial Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer

 

level 1st

 

A tiefling, sorcerer vends the air -with ber Infernal Sorcerer H

 

Celestial Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer level Ist
Celestial Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer level Ist

Celestial Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer level 1st

Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer level Ist
Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer level Ist
Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer level Ist

 

Benefit

Gain bonus spell and a bonus on saves against
electricity and petrification

Expend spell slot to create righteous aura
Expend spell slot to create energy bolt that
harms evil creatures

Expend spell slot to fly for short period of time
Add magic circle against evil, tongues, teleport
to list of spells known

Gain bonus against fire and poison
+2 caster level with conjuration (summoning)
Expend spell slot to see in darkness.

Expend spell slot to create cone of sonic energy
Gain acid and cold resistance

 

Benefit: As a standard action, you can expend a spell
slot to generate a righteous aura of menace that affects
all hostile creatures in a 20-foot radius around you. All
your opponents within this area must make a Will save
DC 10 + the level of the spell slot expended + your Cha
modifier reature takes a
on attack rolls, checks, and saves for 24 hours or until it
successfully hits you. A creature that resists or breaks this
effect cannot be affected by it again for 24 hours. This is a

supernatural ability.

CELESTIAL SORCERER HERITAGE

Your ancestry manifests in the form of several special abilities
You gain access to abilities similar to those of an archon.
Prerequisite: Sorcerer level 1st
Benefit: You gain a bonus on saves against electricity
and petrification equal to the number of celestial sorcerer
om evil to your

On a failed sav 2 penalty

 

 

 

feats you possess. You also add protection
list of 1st-level sorcerer spells known, This spell is in
addition to the spells you gain normally based on your

sorcerer level.

CELESTIAL SORCERER LANCE

You can channel your arcane energy into a bolt of power that
is baneful to evil creat

Prerequisites: Ce

res.

estial Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer

    

level 1st

Benefit: As a standard action, you can expend a spell slot
to create a 60-foot line of energy that deals damage only
against creatures with an evil alignment. The bolt deals 1d8

 

points of damage per level of the spell slot spent to activate
this ability. A Reflex save (DC 10 + the level of the spell slot

expended + your Cha modifier) halves this damage. This is a

 

supernatural abi

CELESTIAL SORCERER LORE

The power of your ancestry grants you access to a variety of

ity

new spells
Prerequisites: Celestial Sorcerer Heritage, any two other
celestial sorcerer heritage feats, sorcerer level 1st
Benefit: You add magic circle against evil, tongues, and teleport
to your list of spells known. You gain these spells when you
ess to spells of the appropriate level. These spells are

 

 

gaina
