in addition to the spells you gain normally based on your
sorcerer level.

CELESTIAL SORCERER WINGS

You channel your inborn magical abilities to spawn a pair of
spectral, magical wings that glow with majestic power.

Prerequisites: Celestial Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer
level 1st

Benefit: You can expend a spell slot as a standard action to
gain the ability to fly. You fly at a speed equal to twice your
base land speed with good maneuverability. This benefit lasts
for 1 round per level of the spell slot used to activate it. This
is a supernatural ability.

INFERNAL SORCERER EYES

Your eyes glow with infernal fire, allowing you to see through
magical darkness.

Prerequisites: Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer
level 1st.

Benefit: As a swift action, you can expend a spell slot to
cause your eyes to emit a spectral red glow. You gain the ability
to see perfectly in darkness of any kind, our to the limit of
your line of sight, You ignore the concealment provided by
darkness spells and effects. This benefit lasts for 10 minutes
per level of the spell slot used to activate it.

INFERNAL SORCERER HERITAGE

Your innate magic derives from infernal ancestors. Your
blood is thick with their power, allowing you to exhibit a
variety of abilities.

Prerequisite: Sorcerer level 1st.

Benefit: You gain a bonus on saves against fire and poison
equal to the number of infernal sorcerer heritage feats you
possess. When you use a conjuration (summoning) spell
to summon an evil outsider, you gain a +2 bonus to your
caster level.

INFERNAL SORCERER HOWL

You channel the fury of your infernal ancestors into a thun:
derous roar that blasts your enemies with sonic power.

Prerequisites: Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer
level ist

Benefit: By expending one of your spell slots, you create a
30-foot cone of sonic energy. All opponents within the cone
take 2d6 points of damage per level of the spell slot expended.
Each target can atrempta Fortitude save (DC 10+ the level of
the spell slot expended + your Cha modifier) for half damage.
This is a supernatural ability,

INFERNAL SORCERER RESISTANCE

You are as tough and tesilient as an infernal monstrosity,
allowing you to shrug off acid and cold damage.
Prerequisites: Infernal Sorcerer Heritage, sorcerer
level 1st
Benefit: You gain resistance to acid and resistance to cold
equal to the total number of infernal sorcerer heritage feats
you have.

 

T.

Metamagic allow spellcasters to modify the way a spell
is cast or the effect a spell has after itis successfully cast. Full
information about metamagic feats appears on page 88 of the
Player’s Handbook.

The five feats described below are new metamagic feats. Their
prerequisites and benefits are summarized on Table 3-6

BLISTERING SPELL

Your fire spells sear the flesh from your enemies’ bones,
leaving them wracked with pain,

Benefit: This metamagic feat can be applied only to a
spell that has the fire descriptor. A blistering spell deals
ra 2 points of fire damage per level of the spell. In
addition to the spell’s normal effect, any creature that fails
its save against a blistering spell takes a2 penalty on attack
rolls and checks until the beginning of your next turn. A
blistering spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the
spell’s actual level.

EARTHBOUND SPELL

You bind a spell into the rock and soil, leaving it there until
an opponent stumbles across it. At that time, the spell releases
its energy.

Benefit: When you cast an earthbound spell, you place it
within a square adjacent to you. You must specify all effects,
options, and other relevant variables when you cast the spell.
The next creature to enter the warded square triggers the
spell. If the spell affects an area, that square is the center of
the area or the point at which the area begins. For a cone,
line, or similar area, you must designate the direction in
which the cone or line extends. An earthbound spell thar
does not affect an area targets the creature that triggered it.
You cannot apply the Earthbound Spell metamagic feat to a
spell with a range of personal

An earthbound spell remains in place for 1 hour or until
it is triggered, A Search check (DC 25 + the spell's level)
reveals its presence, as does detect magic and similar abilities. A
character with trapfinding can make a Disable Device check
(DC 25 + the spell's level) to remove an earthbound spell (as
ifitis a magic trap). A dispel magic effect can also remove an
earthbound spell, thus preventing it from functioning

An earthbound spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher
than the spell’s actual level.

FLASH FROST SPELL

Your spells that use cold and ice to damage your foes leave
behind a thin layer of slippery frost.

Benefit: This metamagic feat can be applied only to spells
that have the cold descriptor and that affect an area. A flash
frost spell deals an extra 2 points of cold damage per level of
the spell to all targets in the area, When you cast such a spell,
the area of the spell is covered with a slippery layer of ice for
L round, Anyone attempting to move through this icy area
must make a DC 10 Balance check or fall prone. A creature
that runs or charges through the area must make a DC 20
Balance check to avoid falling. A flash frost spell uses up a
spell slot one level higher than the spell’s acrual level.

   

an ex

 

 

 

 
