 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  

       

IMBUED SUMMONING

Your summoning spells gain an element of surprise. You can
summon creatures that come into existence with the benefit
of a spell such as invisibility or bull's strength.
Prerequisites: Augment Summoning, Spell Focus
(conjuration)

 

Benefit: When you cast a spell from the summoning
subschool, you can choose to grant the summoned creature
the benefit of any spell of 3rd level or lower you can cast that
has a range of touch. You cast the spell you wish to grant the
creature (using a prepared spell or a spell slot) at the same
time you cast your summoning spell, The creature gains the
benefit of the spell when it appears.

Animbued summoning spell uses up a spell slot one level
higher than the spell’s actual level.

SMITING SPELL

You can channel the energy of a touch spell into a weapon,
causing the spell to discharge when you strike an opponent

Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +1, caster level 1st

Benefit: You can alter a spell with a range of touch to
transfer its energy from your hand to a weapon that you
hold. The next time you strike an opponent with that
weapon, the spell discharges. The target takes the normal
damage and effects of a successful attack in addition to
the spell’s effect. Once you place a spell into a weapon,
you must discharge it within 1 minute, or its energy dis-
sipates harmlessly.

You can place a smiting spell on a piece of ammunition or a
projectile, such asa sling bullet, an arrow, ora crossbow bolt.
In such a case, the spell dissipates if the attack misses. The
spell cannot be placed on a bow, crossbow, sling, or similar
weapon thar uses ammunition.

‘A smiting spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than
the spell's actual level

  

Taste 3-6; METAMAGiC Feats
Feat
Blistering Spell
Earthbound Spell
Flash Frost Spell
imbued Summoning

 

Augment Summoning,
Spell Focus (conjuration)
Smiting Spell

TABLE 3-7: TACTICAL FEATS
Feat
Blood-Spiked Charger

Prerequisites

Str 13, proficiency with armor spikes
and shield spikes, Power Attack,
Weapon Focus (armor spikes),
Weapon Focus (shield spikes),

base attack bonus +6

Dex 15, Int 13, Combat Expertise,
Dodge, base attack bonus +6
Bluff 8 ranks, intimidate 8 ranks,
Perform 8 ranks

Combat Cloak Expert
Combat Panache
Einhander

Mad Alchemist
Shadow Striker

Grenadier, Craft (alchemy) 6 ranks

Base attack bonus +1, caster level Ist

Tumble 6 ranks, base attack bonus +6

Hide 12 ranks, Move Silently 12 ranks

   

TACTICAL FEATS

Tactical fears allow characters to perform a number of power-
ful maneuvers.

If you are playing a character who has one or more tactical
feats, you are responsible for keeping track of the actions
needed to set up the feat’s maneuver. It's also a good idea
to briefly mention to the DM that you're working toward a
tactical maneuver—a remark along the lines of “I'm using
my spiked rebuke maneuver this round. I'll let you know if |
gain my attack bonus against any opponents who attack and
miss me” is appropriate.

Some descriptions of tactical feats refer to the first round,
second round, and so on. These terms are related to the timing
of the maneuver, not the encounter as a whole, For instance,
if you have the Combat Cloak Expert feat, you don't have to
move adjacent to an opponent in the first round of combat
to utilize the cloaked strike maneuver during that combat
Any round when you move adjacent to an opponent for the

 

purpose of utilizing this maneuver is considered the first
round of the maneuver.

The six feats described below are tactical feats. Their pre-
requisites and benefits are summarized on Table 3-7.

BLOOD-SPIKED CHARGER

You throw yourself into the fray, using your spiked armor
and spiked shield to tear your opponents to pieces

Prerequisites: Str 13, proficiency with spiked armor and
spiked shields, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (spiked armor),
Weapon Focus (spiked shield), base attack bonus +6.

Benefit: The Blood-Spiked Charger feat grants you access
to three special tactical maneuvers.

Spiked Avalanche: When you are using the charge action
while wearing spiked armor and carrying either a spiked
shield or nothing in your hands, you throw yourself into the
air, transforming yourself into a deadly, spiked projectile.
A successful atrack with either your spiked shield or your

Benefit

Fire spells cause ~2 penalty for 1 turn on failed save
Cast spell into ground as a trap

Cold spells coat area of effect with slippery ice
Summoned creature arrives with beneficial spell

Place touch spell in weapon

Benefit
Gain armor and shield spike maneuvers

Gain cloak maneuvers
Gain charismatic combat maneuvers
Gain one-handed weapon combat maneuvers

Gain thrown item combat maneuvers
Gain stealthy combat maneuvers

 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
