spiked armor deals extra damage equal to twice your Strength
bonus, You can attack with both your spiked armor and a
spiked shield on this charge, each one benefiting from the
Strength bonus, but you take the normal penalties for using
two weapons,

Spiked Rebuke: When you are fighting defensively and
carrying a spiked shield, you lash out at your foes with your
shield in response to their attacks. Determine what your AC
would be without your spiked shield and the AC bonus for
fighting defensively, Ifan opponent's attack hits against this
lower AC but misses against your actual AC, the foe strikes
your shield, allowing you to deflect his attack in such a way as
to leave him vulnerable to your counter. On your next action,
you gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls against your chosen foe
with your spiked shield

Spiked Slam; Asa full-round action when you are wielding
a spiked shield, you can opt to make only a single attack at
your best base attack bonus. You brace yourself behind your
spiked shield, drive yourself forward, and slam into your
foe. You enter your foe's space, which provokes attacks of
opportunity. In return, your attack deals extra damage equal
to twice your Strength and an additional amount based on
your size (see below). After making this attack, you stumble
back into the square you occupied just before making this
attack. Until the start of your next turn,
any squares.

 

 

 

ou do not threaten

 

Size Additional Damage
Small 1d4
Medium 1d6
Large 1d8
Huge 2d6
Gargantuan 2d8
Colossal 3d6

Special: A fighter can select Blood-Spiked Charger as one
of his fighter bonus feats

COMBAT CLOAK EXPERT

You are adept at turning your cloak into a vital part of your
combat repertoire. By twirling it about you, sweeping it over
enemies, and using it to conceal your weapon, you can catch
an opponent by surprise.

Prerequisites: Dex 15, Int 13, Combat Expertise, Dodge,
base attack bonus +6.

Benefit: The Combat Cloak Expert feat grants you access
to three special tactical maneuvers. You must wear a cloak
in order to utilize them.

Cloak Defense: While you are fighting defensively, you can
use your cloak to confuse your foes. You hold it before your
chest like a curtain, making it difficult for enemies to read
your defensive moves. Your cloak grants you a +1 shield bonus
to AC. If you use the toral defense action, your cloak's shield
bonus improves to +2. (Shield bonuses do not stack, making
it likely thar this maneuver is a poor option if you already
carry a shield.

Cloaked Strike: You can use your cloak to hide a light
weapon. To utilize this maneuver, on the first round you
must move adjacent to an opponent while you do not have

 

 

a weapon in either hand. On the second round, you make
a Bluff check opposed by your foe's Sense Motive check as
you use a move action to draw your weapon. If this check
succeeds, your opponent loses either his Dexterity bonus to
AC or his shield bonus to AC (your choice) until the end of
your current turn.

Whirling Cloak: You can attempt to use your cloak to
confuse your opponent. As a move action after successfully
striking an opponent in melee, make a melee touch attack
against that foe. If this attack hits, you whirl your cloak
around him, temporarily ruining his defenses. Your opponent
cannot make attacks of opportunity against a particular ally
of your choice until the start of his next turn.

Special: A fighter can select Combat Cloak Expert as one
of his fighter bonus fears.

COMBAT PANACHE

Your glowing personality and sharp performance abilities
allow you to navigate the battlefield on sheer chutzpah alone.
While others rely on swords and armor, you use your cutting
wit and ability to manipulate others

Prerequisites: Bluff 8 ranks, Intimidate 8 ranks, Perform
8 ranks,

 

 

Benefit: The Combat Panache feat grants you access to
three special tactical maneuvers

Fortuitous Twmble: For a brief moment, you appear to let your
guard down. As your foe swings at you, you slip out of the way,
causing his attack to slam into one of his allies. By positioning
yourself correctly and making yourself an appealing target,
you dupe your foe into making a critical blunder.

To use this maneuver, you must be successfully attacked
by a foe. On your next turn, you can take a move action to
make a Bluff check opposed by his Sense Motive check. If
you succeed on the check, you can take an immediate action
at the start of your foe's next turn and designate a different
target for your opponent's next melee attack (which must be
acreature it threatens).

 

Play Dead: You crumple to the ground as if slain, luring
your opponent into a false sense of security. As an immediate
action after you are hit for at least 10 points of damage by a
single attack, you can attempt to play dead. You drop prone
and make a Bluff check opposed by your attacker's (or any
other relevant observer's) Sense Motive check. If you suc-
ceed on this check, the observer assumes you are dead. If
you subsequently rise and attack him in the same round, he
loses any attack of opportunity he might have been entitled
to against you, and he loses his Dexterity bonus to AC against
the first attack that you make.

 

You can use this abiliry once per encounter. Standing up
after playing dead does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

Sneering Glower: With just the right mix of your intimidat-
ing presence and your martial talents, you strike such fear
intoyour target that he has difficulty fighting you effectively.
On your next turn after you deal at least 1 point of damage
to your opponent, you can make an Intimidate check against
him as a move action. If you succeed on this check, your foe
takes a penalty on his attack rolls against you equal to your
Charisma bonus. You can gain this benefit against only one

   

 

 
