  
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
 

   
  
   
  
 
       

foe at a time; it lasts for the duration of the encounter or
until you switch targets, Lf you designate a new target for
this ability (by attempting a new Intimidate check against
a different creature), the previous target no longer takes the
penalty on his attack rolls against you. Opponents that are
immune to the effects of the Intimidate skill, such as mind-
less creatures and those with immunity to fear, are immune
to this maneuver.
Special: A fighter
fighter bonus feats.

EINHANDER

You excel at wielding a one-handed weapon while carrying
nothing in your off hand

Prerequisites; Tumble 6 ranks, base attack bonus

Benefit: If you are fighting with a one-handed weapon
ora light weapon and carrying nothing in your off hand,
the Einhander feat grants you access to three special tacti-
cal maneuvers.

Narrow Profile: You can tuck your arm behind your back
and offer a narrow profile when you concentrate on
defense rather than offense, You gain an additional +2 dodge
bonus to AC when fighting defensively or using the total
defense action,

Off-Hand Balance: You use your off hand to balance yourself
while performing acrobatic maneuvers. After you success-
fully strike an opponent, you gain a +2 bonus on Tumble
checks to avoid his attacks of opportunity until the start of
your next turn, When you flip and roll out of harm's way,
you use one hand to keep your balance and your other hand
to keep your weapon trained on your foe

Off-Hand Swap: With a flourish, you flip your weapon into
the air, catch it in your off hand, and continue to ptess the
attack. When you use this maneuver, you must first take a
full attack action to strike an opponent at least twice. On
your next turn, you can make a special feint as a free action,
using Sleight of Hand rather than Bluff. Your opponent uses
the standard rules for resisting a feint. Once you use this
maneuver against a particular opponent, whether it succeeds
or fails, you cannot use it against him again,

Special: A fighter can select Einhander as one of his fighter
bonus feats,

MAD ALCHEMIST

You are an expert at using alchemical items. Through
experimentation, research, and your careful study of the art
of alchemy, you have learned to make the most of items such
as alchemist's fire.

Prerequisites: Craft (alchemy) 6 ranks, Grenadier

Benefit: The Mad Alchemist feat grants you access to three
special tactical maneuvers.

Distracting Blast: If you ready an action to throw a thunder-
stone at the square an opponent occupies, you can disrupt his
actions. The sudden bang from the stone's detonation ruins

 

an select Combat Panache as one of his

 

 

 

   

your foe's concentration, possibly spoiling his attack or his
attempt to cast a spell. If the target of this blast was casting
a spell when you threw the thunderstone, he must make a
Concentration check opposed by your Craft (alchemy) check.
If you succeed on this check, his spell is ruined, If the target
was not casting a spell, he must make a Will save opposed by
your Craft (alchemy) check or take a-2 penalty on attack rolls,
checks, and saves until the beginning of your next turn.

Fiery Blaze: To use this maneuver, you must first strike a
creature with a container of lantern oil or alchemist's fire.
On your next turn, you must strike the creature with a spell
or weapon attack that deals fire damage. If you do so, the
creature takes an extra tdé points of fire damage and catches
on fire if it is not already in flames.

Tanglefoot Defense: By tearing open a tanglefoot bag and
spreading its contents acrossan area, you can create a vexing
barrier that hinders an opponent's approach, As a standard
action, you can transform a single square of clear terrain into
difficult terrain through the use of a tanglefoot bag. This
effect persists for 10 minutes before the tanglefoot bag loses
its potency.

SHADOW STRIKER

You melt into the shadows, hiding from your enemies until
the time is right. Your cunning, guile, and stealth allow you
to pick the most opportune moment to strike.

Prerequisites: Hide 12 ranks, Move Silently 12 ranks.

Benefit: The Shadow Striker feat grants you access to three
special tactical maneuvers.

Evade Notice: If both you and an ally threaten an opponent,
you can attempt to slip beneath your opponent's notice. On
your turn, if you take no hostile actions, such as attacking,
casting an offensive spell, and so forth, you can make a Hide
check opposed by the threatened foe's Spot check. If you
succeed on this check, your foe cannot attack you on his next
turn as long as he threatens another active opponent. If you
attack your foe for any reason before or during his next turn,
you lose this maneuver's benefit.

Fade Away: To use this maneuver, you must first attack an
opponent as a standard action, then move away and attempt
a Hide check as part of your move action for the turn. If your
attack hits, it creates a momentary diversion, granting you a
+5 bonus on this Hide check.

Ghost Strike: You use an ally’s distraction and your talent to
move noiselessly and slip out of your opponent's field of vision
fora single, crucial moment. To use this maneuver, both you
and an ally must threaten a single foe, As a standard action,
you make a Move Silently check opposed by your foe's Listen
check. If you succeed on this check, you gain this maneuver's
benefit. On the next round, your target loses his Dexterity
bonus to AC against your first attack of the round so long as
your ally still threatens him,

Special: A fighter can select Shadow Striker as one of his
fighter bonus feats.

 

 

 

 

  
