OA

Ae
atl
en
id
p

S

     

   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

leaster from
all access

ultaneously, Effects that prevene’ sp
spellcasters of all types. The spélls range in power ingone school of a dial-schoot spell prev
dindirece a to that spel For xample, specialist wizard cannot learn

his chapter presents new tools and weapons for

   

and utility, from a handful of directa

   

 

anod adLdVHO

   

damage spells to spells that move the casterand his a dual-school spell if either of the Spells schools is one of
allies or enemies across the battlefield and those hii Gs pfab ibd sch nls Benefits thar apply to a school of
that allow the caster to act on borrowed time. magiedo not stack with themselvesevewiif the spellcaster
Some spells call or summon néw allies for the spellcaster. can apply them to both schools of magic. For example

 

Channeled’spells are a new type of spell that haveagreater _ifaspellcaster has the Spell Focus féat for either school,

he'dual-school spell normally, However

 

effect the longer you spend casting. Other spells, such as. it applies

 

 

going effect that ¢an be spellcastets who have taken the Spell Focus feat for both

the various crown spells, have an o
discharged fora more powerful result ofa dual-school st

 

's associated schools only increase

 

The chapter begins with the spell lists forthe spellcasting the DC of the dual-school spe

1 THE POLYMORPH SUBSCHOOL

that — Anotherfeature new in Player's Handbook 11is the poly-

 

classes, including the new classes in Chapter 1 of this book
An Mor F appearing at the end of a spell’s name deno’
spell with a material or focus component, respectiv
is not normally included in a spell component pouch. An X _ morph subschool, defined and explained below.

r A spell of the polymorph subschool changes the

  

 

 

 

denotes Spell with am XP component paid by the ca
After the spell fists, the new spells appear in alphabetical __ target's form from one shape to another. Unless stated

 

ame (with the exception of those whose otherwise in the spell’s description, the target of a
the statistics and special
an average member of the new form in

order by spel
names begin with “greate
Presentation, PH 181), Forexplanation of spellterminology, abilities
see Chapter 10 of the Player's Handbook place:
‘ : f 3 + The target retains its ownalignment {and personal-
» \DUAL-SCHOOL SPELLS ity, within the limits of the new forms ability scores).
Dual-school spells, featured in this book forthe first rime, * The target retains its own hit points,
have effects that encompass two distinct schools of magic. In» ‘The target is treared has having its normal Hit Dice
all cases, treat these spells asifthey belongedtoboth schools _ for purpose of adjudicating effects based on HD,

 

mass,” or “swift; see Orderof polymorph spell takes»

 

 

 

own except as follows

   
