    
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  

   
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
   

such as the sleep spell, though it uses the new form's base
attack bonus, base save bonuses, and all other statistics
derived from Hit Dice.

The target retains the ability to understand the languages
it understands in its normal form. If the new form is
normally capable of speech, the target retains the ability
to speak these languages as well. It can write in the lan
guages it understands, but only if the new form is capable
of writing in some manner (even a primitive manner,such
as drawing in the dirt with a paw)

In all other ways, the target's normal game statistics are
effectively replaced by those of the new form, The target loses
all of the special abilities it has in its normal form, including
its class features (even if the new form would normally be

    

ze is different from the target's normal
¢ as much of the original form's
ilable space (see PH

If the new form's
size, its new space must s|
space as possible, squeezing into the av
148) if necessary. If insufficient space exists for the new form,
the spell fails.

Any gear worn or carried by the target melds into the new
form and becomes nonfunctional. When the target reverts
to its true form, any objects previously melded into the new
form reappear in the same location on its body they previously
occupied and are once again functional. Any new items worn
in the assumed form fall off and land at the target's f

The spellcaster can freely designate the new form's minor
physical qualities (such as hair color and skin color} within
the normal ranges fora creature of that kind, The new form's
significant physical qualities (such as height, weight, and
gender) are also under the spellcaste but they must
fall within the norms for the new form’s kind. The target of
a polymorph spell is effectively camouflaged as a creature of
its new form, and gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks if it
uses this ability to create a disguise.

If the target of a polymorph spell is
scious, the spell ends, Any part of the body that is separated
from the whole remains polymorphed until the effect ends

Incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to polymorph
spells, as are creatures of the plant type. A creature with the
shapechanger subtype (such as a lycanthrope or doppelganger)
can revert to its natural form as a standard action.

 

 

 

 

     

contre

 

 

   

slain or rende:

 

 

Spells That Have Come Before
For the purpose of adjudicating effects that apply to poly-
morph spells, any spell whose effect is based on either alter
selfor polymorph should be considered to have the polymorph
subschool. However, note that the spells’ existing rules text
takes priority over that of the subschool. Alter self, for instance,
does not change the target's ability scores (unlike normal for
spells of the polymorph subschool).

ASSASSIN SPELLS

Ist-Level Assassin Spell
Blade of Blood; Weapon deals +1d6 damage, or +3dé6 if you
take 5 points of damage

 

 

    

2nd-Level Assassin Spell
Increase Virulence: Poison’s DC increases by 2

BARD SPELLS

ist-Level Bard Spells
Share Talents: Subjects gain +2 bonus on skill checks.
Stay the Hand: Change subject creature's attitude to helpful
for 1 round.

2nd-Level Bard Spells

Blade Brothers: Use higher saving throw result between
two creatures, but both suffer effects if the saves fail

Celerity, Lesser: Take a move action immediately, but be
dazed for a round

Crown of Veils: Gain +2 to Disguise and Hide, discharge
to gain +8.

Increase Virulence: Poison’s DC increases by 2.

Insight of Good Fortune”: Subject rolls twice, takes best
result.

Master's Touch: Subject gains immediate +4 bonus on a
skill check.

Ray of the Python: Creature can only attack once per round,
cannot make attacks of opportunity,—10 ft. penalty to speed.

Stretch Weapon: Melee weapon gains § ft. of reach for one
attack,

Vertigo: Subject crearure must succeed on a DC 10 Balance
check to move each round.

 

 

 

 

3rd-Level Bard Spells

Alter Fortune: Cause one creature to reroll any die roll,

Halt: Subject's feet become stuck to ground

Hesitate: Force subject to lose actions.

Phantom Battle: Illusion of battle flanks creature’
denies attacks of opportunity,

Sonic Shield: +4 deflection bonus to AC; 1d8 sonic damage
and push back creatures that hit you in melee.

and

 

 

4th-Level Bard Spells
Baleful Blink: Subject has 50°
and spells.
Celerity: Take a standard action immediately, but be dazed
fora round
Healing Spirit: Ball of light heals 1d8/round.
Mirror Image, Greater: As mirror image, but gain an addi

chance of failure on attacks

   

tional image each round.
Thunder Field; Creatures in area take 1d8 sonic damage/

round, knocked prone.

 

5th-Level Bard Spells

Dance of Blades: A weapon attacks on its own

Friend to Foe: Make subject creature believe its allies are
its enemies.

Incite Riot: Subjects attack nearest creature.

Magic Convalescence: Spells cast nearby heal you 1
hp/spell level

Renewed Vigor: Remove fatigue and +2 bonus to Constitu-
tion for 1 round/level

 

 

  
