   

our character is more than just’a race, class;
and level stapled together. At their best, D&eD*
Charactersare on par with characters in the best
movies and novels, almostas complex as real people.

You have many optionsat your disposal when craft

ing your character's personality, You could invent
anvintriguing history for your character and allow his or her
personality to follow naturally from that. You could imitate
characters (or aspects of characters) from books you have read,
movies you have seen, orreal people you know. With some
attention on your part to his or her background, personal
ity type, and significant traits, your character can possess
realistic depth and motivation. This chapter offers tools to
create well-rounded characters with memorable personalities,
as well as advice on being a good player at the table

CHARACTER

Your character has a place in the fictional world of the D&D
game, Whether you grew up on a farm, struggled for scraps
of bread in an alleyway, or were raised by a pack of magical
wolves, you had a life before you started walking the road to
adventure, The following backgrounds can serve as inspiration
for what your character's childhood and youth were like.
Each background includes several headers that describe how
you can apply it to different parts of your character's life.

  

 

—_—— Se eee Spa

  

Youth; This section describes the typical experiences of
acharacter who grewiupin this background: Ic describes
how that background shaped your early life,

Transition: Your background represents your past: This
section offers twoor three ideas on how you left your old

      
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   

life behind and became an adventurer.

At the Table: Your background shapes your outlook and
your actions. This section discusses how yourbackground
might manifest when you roleplay your character.

ARTISAN
Apprenticed to-« promising artisan; yor worked hard
throughout your childhood to develop the:skills neces-
baty sotpiistet voile AS? antl make predlind te Metha
world: Hours spent working ih the shop/slonigside yout
iriedver Watching, assisting, pratticing, and slowly gain
iinpresepeftice iryallespacts of yor: chowesitetalt alleng
you to truly appreciate the artistry that goes into evéry
facet of the job, From conceptualization to gathering
supplies to working the materials into the desired form
and finally to the cleanup atthe end of each project,
you are proud to have the skills of a true artisan.
Youth: Working in your master’s shop was no day
at the carnival, Early on, you spent most of your time
sweeping and scrubbing flaors, cleanitg tools, carrying
supplies, and preparing simple meals s0 your master
could spend histime working on his current project. Fy 2 La)

 

  

 

 
