   
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
 

  
 
 
 
    
    
 
   
     

Each time he gave you a task that seemed meaningless to the
actual job at hand, more often than not it proved necessary
to achieving his goal. As you completed these tasks, you
would quietly watch your master; learning all you could from
observation before he gave your next tas

Transition: What drove you ftom the comforting grip of
the workshop to the world of adventure? Your motivation
could come from within, or events beyond your control might
have cast you into the role of an adventurer.

Perhaps the toil of the workshop grew tiresome. You always
preferred tales of heroes, monsters, and ancient treasures to
your master's long lectures on responsibility, technique, and
craftsmanship. As soon as you had enough money saved, you
left your master and took up training in your current class.
Your master might still hold a grudge for your desertion; if
he is powerful in his community or guild, you can expect
trouble from him in the furure.

 

 

 

If your master was cruel, life on the road could have been
a better option than another year of slaving away in his shop.
Underfed, beaten for the smallest infraction, and worked
to the point of exhaustion, you didn't so much leave your
craft as escape from it. Alone in the world and penniless,
you learned enough to survive and eventually became an
adventurer. Perhaps a kindly new master took you in, oryou
were drafted into military or religious service

Artisans need peace and stability to make a living. A war,
plague, or other calamity could have forced you onto the
adventurer’s path, If orcs sacked your home city and burned
it to the ground, you could have become an adventurer out of
necessity rather than any desire for glory. Perhaps you thirst
for vengeance against the cruel ty
and smashed your dreams of becoming a respected artisan
with a shop of your own.

 

ant who slew your master

 

At the Table: Comment on the craftsmanship of weapons
and armor you find, A dwarf craftsman might take the time
to wonder at the beautiful carvings on an ancient, abandoned
stronghold’s walls. An elf artisan might be arrogant toward
human goods, While other members of the party are excited
at the magical properties of a sword, you find the excellent
quality of its blade and the fine detailed work in its pommel
worthy of comment. To you, a dungeon can also be a museum
of an ancient civilization’s artwork and craftsmanship.

ASCETIC

Sequestered in a convent, monastery, library, orschool, you spent
your youth in study, contemplation, and reflection, Through
meditation, academic study, or prayer, you honed your passion
for knowledge in the fire of your will. Through discipline and
perseverance, you still constantly drive yourself to unlock
lore, whether it is hidden in ancient texts or religious scrip-
ture or revealed through constant meditative practice.
Youth: Asachild you spent hours retrieving and cataloging
tomes and scrolls for older scholars who left you to your own
devices once they had the materials they sought. Spending
these hours with little supervision, you learned the location of
nearly every work stored in the library of the mountain abbey
you called home. While at that age you couldn't fathom the
mysteries stored within, you kepta mental tally of those that

 

    

interested you most. From time to time you would be sent to
the kitchen for food, or to wash dishes, or to run any number
of errands. Each such excursion away from the library that
you had come to call home felt like a test—of your resolve
to learn, of your desire to spend time only in the library, or
simply of your youthful patience.

Transition: A scholar can only learn so much ina library
surrounded by books. Your masters ordered you out into the
world to experience its wonders firsthand. Having learned
everything your masters can teach, you can never return
home until your magic or ki is strong enough, or until you
have surpassed your masters, or you have achieved enlighten-
ment or ultimate arcane or divine power.

Alternatively, rivalry or power struggle among your masters
might have forced you out into the world. Your tutor or sponsor
fell into disgrace or disappeared under mysterious circum-
stances, Without your master around, there was no longer a
place for you, You still seek him, or at least to avenge him

Perhaps rather than simply leaving your order, you were
expelled. Scholarship demands innovation and forward thought,
but your thoughts were too radical for your elders. Your ideas
were deemed dangerous or subversive or heretical, forcing
your exile, Maybe you delved into lore too dangerous for mere
apprentices, such as spells to summon forgotten gods or bind
demons. Perhaps a rival student framed you.

At the Table: You know a lot, and you aren't afraid to show
it off. While others might refer to creatures by common
names such as “kobold," “troglodyte,” and “bugbear,” you
know the proper classification of each in Old Draconic. If you
find an ancient library, a collection of scrolls, or even ancient
murals and frescoes that depict myths and prehistorical
events, you happily lose yourself in studying them even in
the midst of a dungeon,

If you trained as a monk or cleric, the habits, beliefs, and
ethos instilled in you by your upbringing play a major role in
your life. For example, you might be a vegetarian if your sect
forbids the eating of meat, and you aren't afraid to tell others
of the superiority of your diet, You have an old saying or a
bit of wisdom for every occasion, When faced with a tough
decision, you turn to a religious book or similar manual for
guidance, You quote scripture or your master's sayings to
support your arguments and decisions.

DRIFTER

Home? What's that? You spent your entire life on the road,

 

moving from town to town, You get by taking odd jobs, some
less savory than others, or performing for a night's bed and
food, People are your stock in trade: your keen understanding
of theirattitudes, behaviors, and desires keeps you employed
and alive. When things go bad, it's time for you and yours to
move on to the next town. Survival has always been your first
priority, and you have become quite good ar it.

Youth: Asa child, you spent the majority of your days either
on the road or performing odd jobs and running errands for your
elders. You putany talents you had to work for you just to get by
and perhaps earna little food ora few spare coins. You might have
turned to crime when things became desperate, or you might
have resisted all temptation no matter how bad things got.
