You could have ended up on the road due to a number of
reasons, You might have been separated from your family at a
young age due to war or some other disaster. A plague could have
left you a sole survivor and driven you from your hometown.
Pechaps you grew up in an orphanage and ran away as soon as you
were able. Your parents could have been wanderers themselves,
so thar you never knew any other life, at first being carried on
your mother's back and then later walking beside her,

Transition: Moving from the life of a scrounging drifter
to thar of an adventurer was easy for you, The skills you
learned on the roads or in the alleys and taprooms of the
world prove useful to any adventurer. Perhaps you managed
a heist that scored you enough money to buy you thie
tools, a weapon, and some armor. That single windfall was
enough to transform you from just another wanderer toa
skilled, armed adventurer,

You might have stumbled into the adventurer's life by
accident. Seeking shelter from a storm, you entered a cave
that rurned out to be a monster's lair. You managed to slay
the beast and afterward helped yourself to its treasure. Your
first taste of adventure was frightening and exhilarating (and
profitable), and you developed a liking for the activity.

Adventure finds you as often as you find it. Perhaps mon-
sters threaten the area you are traveling through, leaving you
with a simple choice: fight, flee, or die, Maybe you've alw.
tried to help others as you were passing through an area. Now
that you're older, stronger, and more skilled, you can take a
more active role in protecting the common folk and helping
out where you can.

Atthe Table: You've done it all before, and your experience
makes you calm in act When a sudden thunderstorm
rolls in, you know how to find shelter, When it comes to
surviving in the wilds or making your way through a city, you
are a treasure trove of folktales, traveler's lore, and common
sense, Worldly for your age, you aren't afraid to show off that
knowledge in front of others. Sheltered people, those who
grew up in far easier circumstances than you, earn your
disdain if they can't keep up with you. You didn't grow up
with much, but you learned to take care of yourself.

FARM HAND

Born and raised on the farm, you developed a keen understand-
ing of agrarian life, as well asa strong work ethic. Accustomed
to being up at dawn and asleep by dusk, you can track the
seasons by touch and smell. You know the satisfaction of
cultivating the earth on which you live, and you relish the
responsibility of taking care of the animals that you depend on
for food, clothing, and companionship. Some might consider
thisa simple life, bur those who have thar attitude know very
little about how to work with the land or understand the
respect necessary to coax it to bear fruit.

Youth: As child, you hung upon the apron strings of those
working in the home and hearth, You learned to clean the
dwelling in which you lived, as well as cook for those who lived
there with you. As you grew older, your daily chores became
more complicated and laborious. From splitting and hauling
firewood, feeding and cleaning up after the animals, and working
the earth to produce the crops you need to live on, you learned

 

 

 

 

 

 

every aspect of farm life and grew to appreciate the hard work
that was required just to put enough food on the table, In your
free time you learned to fish and hunt, supplementing your daily
diet with game from the nearby wood or stream.

Transition: Shifting from the humdrum life of a farmer to
the exciting, deadly path of an adventurer was no easy change
for you to make. You left behind generations of tradition to
seek the adventuring life. Whether you were pushed into this
decision or happily left your family’s fields behind you, you
know that you can never go back to that life again.

Life on the farm is never easy, and a cruel, demanding ruler
only makes things worse. A distant war, a monarch obsessed
with building monuments or enjoying the pleasures of the
court, or a few years of insufficient rain and harsh winters: All
these factors can drive a farmer to seck a better life. Perhaps
the peasants and yeomen rose up in rebellion. You were one
of the lucky ones who managed to escape when the king's
men razed your village. You learned to handle a weapon in
the uprising, and a slain mercenary raider’s weapons and
armor became your first set of adventuring gear. Maybe one
day you'll return to avenge your family and friends, but until
then you hone your skills.

Alternatively, you might have left the farm of your own free
will. Maybe you weren't in line to inherit any of your father's
land, leaving you with little choice but to seek another option.
Too ambitious ro stay on the farm, at the first opportunity
you headed for a life of adventure, Your family still lives in
your old hometown, and maybe you visit from time to time
orsend them a few coins now and then to help out when the
harvest is bad and times are tight

At the Table: You are accustomed to hard work and have
little patience for those who are lazy, negligent, or irrespon-
sible. You have toiled for hours under a hot sun to feed your
family, and you have no time for those who aren't willing to
purout a similar effort.

When you and your companions entera rural community,
youre the best choice to serve as your group's spokesperson.
You might not be the most elegant figure in the party, but you
know how to talk with ordinary people. Despite the armor
you wear, the weapons you carry, or the magic you command,
at heart you're still one of them. Any threat to the common
folk is likely to draw a sharp reaction from you.

GLADIATOR

Born a slave, you trained from an early age to fight with
weapons or magic. Experts were brought in from all over
the world to train you and your fellows in various forms of
attack and defense, imparting to you a respect for cultures
outside your own, as well as their methods of combat, Even
as ayoung child, you were forced to fight in the arena against
other children as well as animals not considered a threat to
older, more experienced gladiators. Given your innate sense
of dramatic flair, you have come to enjoy the adulation of the
crowd, as well as the respect of your peers.

Youth: Your daily routine began with a strict regimen of
calisthenics followed by training in the pits. Every hour you
trained with a different master, each focusing on different
methods of fighting and teaching you ways to present yourself

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
