with a distinct theatrical air. After a noon meal, you were set
to sparring in the arena, focusing on different tactics and
scenarios—some meant for the individual and some done
in pairs, each gladiator working in tandem with another

Transition: A gladiator revolt allowed you to break free o
your masters, Ina single night of carefully planned violence
you turned the tables on your captors and made a daring

 

escape. You were one of the lucky ones who made it our alive,

but your former masters placed a price on your head. You have

  

run far away, bue who knows when a cunning bounty hunter
ora vengeful tracker might find you? Thus, you keep to the
road. You prefer never to talk about your past, and you make
an active effort to disguise your true identity, Anyone who
shows an unusual interest in you could be a threat
Alternatively, perhaps you earned your freedom through yout
success in the arena. Even so, your past haunts you. Old rivals
ng days, relatives of opponents you killed, and

   

from your fighri

  

y young brawlers seeking to mak
eS es

 

co aname
all seek you out with bloody inten
burden, just as likel
Once you entered the wide world, you had few skills aside
from those you learned in the arena and under the tutelage
of the pit masters. Mercenary work didn't appeal to
since you've already had your fill of demanding masters. As
an adventurer, you can risk your life as you choose and for
your own profit. Life is much better this way,
Atthe Table: You are an experton weapons, armor
ing styles. When you size up oth
their fighting ability. You coll
both torespect the talent they dis:
played in standing against
you and to com-
memorate your

for themselves
Your fame is an unwel

 

ome

 

 

to cause trouble as earn favors,

 

you,

 

and fight
1s, you look at them in terms of
+ trophies from fall

  

 
 
 
  

 

n enemies,

 

Gutterinipes grow up on the street, t
a

r y se a2

of aa. bw C3 Aue -
Ss. - Eb RNG: oi cust

  

viete

 

s. When you face a problem, violence is your preferred
solution (soft words and subtl

 

methods never served you well in
the arena), Politics are beyond you. There's no obstacl
be overcome with a swift blow to the head. When it comes time

 

tharcan't

 

to make plans, you argue for a direct and violent solution.
Your weapons, armor, and other tools of combat are your
wards against defeat. You spend time each morning caring for

arrior who dos

 

 

n't take care of his

     

your weapons and gear. Av

gear risks losing his next fight, and you always plan to win

GUTTERSNIPE

Born into poverty, you grew up on the streets. When other

children went home to their parents, you slept in back alleys

 

and dilapidated abandoned buildings, getting food where
you could and making friends and family out of those i
similar straits. Those with roofs over their heads and do

 

sto
close against the night looked down upon you, calling you a
worthless, no-good street urchin. They didn'tunderstand the
kind of skills you possessed, skills that allowed you to find
what you needed to survive, whether that was food, drinkable
water, or a safe place to sleep.

Yout

 

2 Li as tough—dodging bullies
and gangs, scrounging for food or standing in line for a daily
bow! of soup at the emple, avoiding the heavy hand of the local
»gry, but you had the freedom

constables, You were

   

to do as you pleased, and from

 

ime to time a generous passerby
errand or deliver

  

might give you a few coppers to run a quick
wt spent a great deal of time dodging a gang of

 

a message. Y

an get

  
