toughs who only seemed interested in making you steal on
their behalf You made up your mind that if you were going
to be the one stealing, then you would be the one to pick the
time and place, determine what was and wasn't an acceptable
level of risk, and reap the benefit if you pulled it off,

Transition: You couldn't dodge the gang and the con-
stables forever, Perhaps you bit off more than you could chew
ina daring robbery. After that your choice was simple: leave
town until the heat died down or die at the hands of the
gang's brutal enforcers. You took to the road and found that
your skills worked just as well in other cities as in yourown
Adventuring offered you the chance to make a fortune and
set something aside for the long term.

Perhaps your burgeoning talents came to the attention of a
small band of adventurers who needed an item liberated from
a certain wizard’s bedchamber. While they distracted the old
mage, you climbed the wall of his tower and plucked an amulet
from his armoire. You made a lot of money on that job, and you
decided this was the life for you. The victimized wizard might
seek you out (whether you are aware of that or not) to avenge
his loss. [f your past catches up to you, you had best hope that
your adventuring companions can help bail you out.

At the Table: Old habits die hard. You're accustomed to
scrounging for basic necessities, so you tend to keep extra sup-
plies on hand—you never want to go to sleep hungry again.
When you have spending money, you have trouble holding
on to it. A few nights in a sumptuous inn, seven-course meals,
and other luxuries leave you ready to strap on your equipment
and head back into the world for another adventure. You live
for the day and cast aside worries, long-term plans, and the
like. That doesn't mean that you are foolish or reckless, just
that you appreciate the finer things in life. To you, it's obvious
that you should put off hard work till tomorrow when there's
strong drink and good food to enjoy today.

MARINER

With a salty breeze in your hairand a hardwood deck under-
foot, you spent your life in a constant search for whatever lay
over the endless horizon of the sea, You loved the sea and all
the dangers that life aboard a sailing vessel offered. Above
all, you enjoyed the freedom that you had on such a ship:
freedom to travel the world, and freedom from the laws that
govern the people living on land.

Youth: As a young sailor aboard a ship, your life was filled
with work. Cleaning and repairing the ship took up the majority
of your time. You also spent a fair amount of time on watch,
keeping a lookout for other ships that could have hostile intent.

 

   

In rare moments when you were not working, you were free to
enjoy the passing sea, to sing songs and learn an instrument
from another crew member, or to take lessons in navigation
from the captain or first mate whenever they had time to give
them. You spent time fishing, working in the galley with the
ship's cook to prepare meals, or even practicing swordplay with
the master of arms in case another ship attacked yours.

Transition: Life as a mariner is almost the same as life as
an adventurer. You must face terrible monsters, venture into
nknown territories, and stand ready to fight for your life at
a moment's notice.

 

 

 

 

Perhaps a terrible storm capsized your ship. You were
lucky enough to make it to shore in a strange land, but you
have no idea what happened to the rest of the crew. To make
ends meet, you put your skill with weapons or spells to good
use. For now, you adventure to earn enough coin to survive
(and, if you strike it rich, someday buy your own ship). You
want to discover what happened to your shipmates. Perhaps
the storm had a sinister origin, and even now an unknown
enemy plots against you.

Arun-in with pirates might have sent you on the path to
adventure. You were captured and separated from your crew-
mates, You managed to escape, and now you have sworn to
find and free your comrades, Pethaps your family owned the
ship you served upon, and now you must rescue your brothers
and sisters, parents and cousins, You have no idea where to
begin your search, but you hope that over the course of your
adventures you can find some clue to their location.

At the Table: You use nautical terms in everyday conversa-
tion, Your weapon isa cutlass rather than a scimitar. You drink
rum rather than ale, You know a lot about ships and boats,
refer to others as landlubbers or scalawags, and never turn
down the chance to take a sea voyage. You've been to dozens
of ports around the world, and you love to talk about your
exploits in each one. You have amassed a wealth of knowledge,
tall tales, and stories. If your group fights a medusa, you might
recall legends about a similar crearure that haunts the waves
When you enter a port city, you prefer to stay near the docks
and visit taverns where you can find other sailors and ask
them for news from across the seas.

NOBLE SCION

Born with a silver spoon in your mouth, you knew very little
about living a common life. No matter what your interests,
you had the best instructors. You had servants and soldiers
who jumped to do your bidding and ensure your safety.
The only higher authority you had to answer to was your
family—particularly your parents, who were so busy with the
administration of your birthright that they left your education
and upbringing to trusted servants

Youth: You toured the countryside from the back of a
pillow-laden carriage, sipping freshly squeezed fruit juice
from an ice-chilled carafe. You spent entire days taking les-
sons in the warmth and comfort of your personal chambers.
When you were not pursuing your own education, you
diverted yourself with games, music, theater, and flirtations.
You attended elegant parties dressed all in silk, with properly
coifed hair and manicured nails, Above all, you spent count-
less hours at the court, observing your parents preside over
those who served them, settle disputes, pass edicts, and hand
down judgments. Some would say that you were blessed from
birth, but you believed thar the simple fact of your presence
bestowed a blessing on others.

Transition: Leaving behind an easy life of costume balls,
servants, and rolling estates, you took up life as an adventurer.
Afterall, the luxuriant life of a noble depends on one thing:
money, If your family managed to lose its fortune (perhaps
through a rival's machinations, perhaps through simple mis-
management), you must now fend for yourself in the world.

 

 

 
