Since you only know how to fight, an adventurer’s life was
the best fit for you. Although you enjoy your new life, your
past still haunts you. Your unit's old enemies still seek you
Your surviving comrades might (wrongfully) blame you for
their defeat, Perhaps your unit's destruction was no accident
of war, Instead, someone wants you and your old comrades
dead, and that individual has the ways and means to hunt
you down one by one.

At the Table: You have a story about a battle you took part
in for almost every occasion. You can't help but argue from
an expert's point of view, and at times you are too dismis
sive of those who lack experience in your eyes. You cry out
orders in battle, shouting advice and encouragement to your
comrades. Part of you thinks that you simply know better
than everyone else when it comes to combar, but you also feel
a strong attachment and a sense of camaraderie with those
who fight alongside you, You want ta do everything in your
power to keep your fellow adventurers safe.

TRIBAL ORIGIN

Born among the people, you were raised by the members
of your-extended family, all of whor participared in: your
upbringing wo one extent or another: Your mother taught you
to gather food and cook, your father taught you to hunt and
fish. Your grandfather taught you to

treat hide and make weapons, and

 

 

 

 

your grandmother taught you the history of your people.
Everyone had his or her place at home, and you experienced
times of both joy and sorrow with all your kin.

Youth: Asa child, your activities changed each day based on
the needs of your people. Some days you gathered food with
your mother, and others you stalked through the underbrush
in pursuit of prey with your father. Your tasks depended on
what was needed at the time, and you were productive for at
least a few hours each day. You also spent a good deal of time
in play—swimming with and running races against your
siblings and cousins, practicing the use of weapons for hunt-
ing and defense from your enemies, and playing elaborate
games meant to sharpen your senses and strengthen your
body. From time to time you were even asked to stand watch
and keep an eye out for the goblins that li
encampment without warning,

Transition: The road from your tribe's home territory
to the heart of civilization was a long and arduous one.
Perhaps you took to it freely, when the lure of cities and
towns proved too strong. Perhaps the transition was violent
and sudden, when a slave trader, raiding party, or other
force from the outside world swooped in and plucked you
from your home.

 

d to attack your

 

 

If you willingly left home, you could have felt a strong
sense of wanderlust from an early age. You always wanted to
know what lay over the mountains, The outside world seemed

 

=
=
a
boo
z
;
=
=

ALIANIGI

 
