 

   
  
 
    
 
 
  
  

so much more interesting than your humdrum existence,
especially when the tribal elders told you stories of the great
cities that stood beyond the horizon. Perhaps an old adventurer
of the tribe, a warrior who had ventured into the world and
returned years later with great treasure and renown, stoked
your imagination with the tales of her adventures. As soon
as you were old enough, you hired on with a passing caravan
and ventured into the world.

Events could have forced you from home. While you were
out hunting one day, a gang of slavers captured you and sold
you into the service of a rich merchant. After years of toil,
you escaped and now run free. While part of you wants to
return home, civilization has proven too intriguing to leave
behind. You remain one step ahead of the slave lord’s boun-
ty hunters, and by improving your skills in weapons and
magic you hope one day to foil their pursuit once and for
all. Perhaps the slave lords destroyed your village and you have
no home to return to. You remain in civilization to grow in
power until you can avenge your people one day. Once you
have slain the slave lords and burned their fortress to the
ground, you can found a new village peopled by those you
free from their chains,

At the Table: You always compare the character of civiliza-
tion to thar of your people and find it wanting, You are fond of
quoting your grandmother's sayings to drive home this point
Civilized folk lie, cheat, and steal from each other, actions that
would doom a tribe in the wild. You see civilized folk as soft
and complacent. Few of them have stalked a beast in the wild,
and fewer still have fought off a dire wolf or displacer beast
attack. Your origin sets you apart, but ir makes you stronger,
rougher, and more cunning than the soft-bellied folk of the
cities. While you might be ignorant of
customs, you are by no means a fool

PERSONALITY

Each of the following personality archetypes includes a quote
(something a character corresponding to chat archetype
might say), a description, and a list of classes and of traits
that are especially appropriate to that archetype. You are not
limited to these classes and traits; they simply represent good
combinations for D&D characters.

AGENT

“Tt shall be as you command.”
An agent adventures not for herself but for an orga-
nization ot society, whether a thieves guild sends her to
gather information, she explores new territory for an em-
peror, or she carries the name of her deity into new lands.
An agent might be loyal to her organization, or she might
resent her role and look for a way to escape. An agent can
create interesting dynamics in an adventuring party, espe-
cially when she must choose between her fellow PCs and
her organization
Classes: Bard, beguiler, cleric, druid, knight, monk,
paladin, ranger, rogue, scout, warmage, wizard.
Traits: Ambitious, serious.

 

 

ization and its

 

 

 

  

  

    
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

CHALLENGER

T must fight him. Only by striving against those superior to myself
can | achieve greatness.”

A challenger adventures for personal growth. He cares
about treasure and magic only if they can further this goal,
and he cares about fame not at all. A challenger tries to reach
the pinnacle of achievement in his chosen path, whether that
path is defined by combat, magic, stealth, or some other abil
ity. He does this by throwing himself against progressively
greater challenges, reveling in those just on the edge of his
ability to overcome. A challenger is a good character to have
in an adventuring party, since he does not quail under duress
and often allows other party members to take the best trea-
sure. Indeed, some challengers see magic items as crutches,
and they seek to attain perfection without them.

Classes: Barbarian, dragon shaman, duskblade, fighter,
knight, marshal, monk, rogue; swashbuckler; warlock, war-
mage, wizard.

Traits: Bold, disciplined.

COMPANION

“Stand firm, Regdar. Lam at your side”

A companion is the best ally anyone could ever hope for.
He is loyal and dedicated, and he often shares a special kin:
ship with a particular individual. A companion supports his
allies in all they do and never abandons or betrays them. He
doesn’t lead, but he does offer cogent advice and support.

Classes: Cleric, duskblade, favored soul, fighter, knight,
monk; peladin, sorcerer:

Traits: Connected, funny, loyal

CRUSADER

“Crush the minotaurs and spread the word of Obad-Hai!"

A crusader serves a cause. The cause might be noble or
heinous, universal or personal. She could belong to an organi-
zation that shares her cause, or she could act as her individual
beliefs demand. Either way, a crusader adventures to further
her cause, The normal motivations for adventuring—wealth,
power, fame, personal betterment, excitement—hold scant
appeal for a crusader; she is happiest when she is directly
serving her cause. She keeps her party adventuring, since
whenever her fellow PCs don't know whar to do next, she is
quick to suggest a course of action.

Classes: Cleric, druid, favored soul, knight, marshal, monk,
paladin, wizard.

Traits: Bold, patriotic, religious.

DAREDEVIL

“You guys stay here. I'm going to scale te wall, sneak past the guards,
swim the moat, have a look around, and come back.”
A daredevil gets a rush from dangerous stunts. He is a risk-

takerand a gambler, willing to put his money, his reputation,

and his life at stake purely for exhilaration. He's the one who
opens the door even though it's probably trapped, who enters
the cave even though there's probably a dragon inside, and
who puts on the necklace even though it's probably cursed.
He's a valuable addition to a party, since he’s always willing
to take on the tasks no one else wants to do (and he often

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
