   

has the skills to succeed and even excel at them), but his might instill fear in his allies as well as his enemies. He speak

   

      

  

recklessness can be his downfall—and that of his party. n his party's behalf and organizes his fellow PCs in combat,
Classes: Bard, beguiler, duskblade, hexblade, rogue, scout routing strategies (preferably in languages his opponents cant
sorcerer, swashbuckler, warlock un d). He drives the party for 4 outside of combat
Traits: Bold, energetic, flamboyant as -ping it moving toward acommon goal, searching

f at and d which adventures to and

          

     
       

   

 

continue along 1 vell come to the fallen cour m mand that power and position for himself. Leaders
of Abu nix sften, but not always, have high Charisma scores
An explorers driven to find new places, interesting cultures Classes: Cleric, dragon shaman, fighter, knight, marsha
and fascinating objects, When she reads a map, she looks to _ paladin, warmage

    

bitious, charmin

  

t's beyond. Her eyes fall firston th Traits: A:

 

e edges and wonder

 

unknown areas: What's in the mide

     
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 

of those mountains? Beneath that

 

piest when she discovers

 

 

o»mething new. She is driven to be the yt willingly and even ea

line

 

first person to look at a new land puts her life on

battle a new creature, or discover a for a greater purpose. This

lorer kk:

 

eps hee purpose might be a cause

 

 

party moving, and she guai an organization cific

 

   

s constant adyenture as on, a group of people,

 

or just about anything else.

 

ints her companions

 

toward uncharted territory martyr is willing to die to fi

 

Classes: Barbarian, bard the

   

his purpose

 

druid, duskblade, ranger expects to do so, Howe

refuses to die in vai

 

rogue, scout

Traits: Driven, exotic

INNOCENT
I

never done anything like

must have a greater meani

 
  

it must inspire others tc

5

A martyr's selflessness makes her 2

 

valuable addition to an
ing pa

to sacrifice herself for her compan-

 

ntur

 

sin

 

she is often willing
t might hav.
nd brutality

 
 
 

ions, Her g

   

Irpose proy
motivation for adventures, but she

articipate

meless us and reckless

 

can become self-rig

n her risk-taki

   

so far. Other charac

ters, particularly elder ones,
E larly eld

 

Cle

 

Class:

 

, druid, favored
soul, fighter, knight, monk, paladin.
Traits: Kind, mercif

find an innocent endearing

 

because of this quality. An in 11, reformed

to

   

 

   

 

   

   

            

          

    

 

dispel herinnocence, because RCENAR
she craves excitement, becaus If there { involved, I'm in. Other-
she has no other choice, or for wise, count me out
of the other reasons characters ad- Am nary care
venture. An innocent is a blank sh: terial things—chiefly gold, but alsc
intains or the goods and services that
loses her innocence creates dy D buys, such as equipment, magic
imic tension in the adventuring items, good food, and good times
arty, Seeing her triumph despite Concepts such as morality and
) F use of, her innocence is exhilarating loyalry matter to a mercenary, or so she Ci
Classes: d, cleric, druid, favored soul, monk, sorcere umstances and good friend ke her change her
wizard lief it money still holds a special place in her soul.
Traits: Carefree, kind, naive mercenary is a good addition to an adventuring party
because she is easy to motivate
Lt \ Classes: Barbarian, bard, beguiler, fighter, hexblade,
‘Onward, men! We have those ores on the r marshal, rogue, sorcerer, wizard.
A leader leads, Others look to b uidance, and he Traits: Boastful, greedy

        

provides it. He might provide assurance and protection, or he

 
