  

ORPHAN

“Tve been on my own my whole life. Always alone.”

Anorphan has no parents, at least not that he can remember,
or parental figures in his life. He might have grown up in an
orphanage or on the street, but in any case he spent his forma-
tive years fending for himself. This upbringing taught him
selfreliance and confidence but also distrust of others. An
orphan could be curious about his parentage and his lost past,
and seeking answers to such questions can spark adventure
After he learns to trust his adventuring partners, he cleaves
to them like the family he never had.

Classes: Barbarian, bard, beguiler, cleric,
druid, fighter, hexblade, monk, ranger,
rogue, scout, sorcerer, warlock

Traits: Calm.

ROPHET

“1 speak the word of Pelor.”

A prophetsees herself as the voice
of a deity in the world—which
might or might not be true. She
doesn't necessarily crusade or
convert, but she does uphold her
deity’s values and believes that she
embodies a piece of that deity in
physical form. Other faithful wor-
shipers gather about her, and priests
of the faith welcome her, She prompts
adventures that further her deity’s ends
and leads her party into adventures that she
claims her deity instructed her to undertake.

Classes: Cleric, dragon shaman, druid,
favored soul, monk, paladin

Traits: Energetic, fatalistic, religious

REBEL

“What has the kingdom done for
They've rubbed our faces in the mud
and expected us to be grateful!”

A rebel has a grudge against
established authority. He might dis-
like all authority, or his feelings might be
more focused on a single government (such as
a kingdom), a small group (such as his family), or
an individual (such as a baron, merchant prince,
former employer, or parent). Highly individualistic,
arebel engages in activities in dehance of authority, and he might
actively fight against that authority and all its manifestations.
Whether bitter or idealistic, all rebels value their freedom highly.
Arebel helps an adventuring party find adventure when he flees
from his latest escapade or puts his next plan into motion

Classes: Bard, fighter, hexblade, ranger, rogue, scout,
swashbuckler.

Traits: Driven.

RENEGADE

“Lean never return to my place of birth. My companions a
home now."

 

 

Iitws. by R. Spencer

 

 

 

 

 

my

   
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

lee the wizard

as a mercenary

    
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
    
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
      

For some reason, a renegade cannot go home. He might
be a wanted criminal on the run. He might have disgraced
himself or be amember ofa dishonored family. He might be a
political exile or might hold beliefs counter to those currently
in power. Pethaps his banishment will be lifted and he can
return home after he accomplishes a specific task (atoning for
a sin, recovering a lost artifact, capturing the real criminal),
offering a motivation for him and his companions to adventure.
Alternatively, he could be making his way in the world as best
he can, now that his roots to home are severed.

Classes: Barbarian, bard, druid, duskblade,
fighter, hexblade, ranger, rogue, scout, sorcerer,
warlock, wizard.

Traits: Exotic, skilled, vengeful.

ROYALTY

“No, I'm not the princess. I just look like her.”

This character might bea princess,aruler's spouse,
ora cousin of the royal family. For some reason, she is
roughing it as an adventurer. Perhaps tales of adven-
ture excite her, and she ran away from home to
perience such events for herself. Perhaps

her parents (or the court) were cruel or de-
manded unreasonable things of her, and
she escaped. Perhaps she simply wished
to experience life asan adventurer for per-
sonal or spiritual reasons (seeing firsthand
what her people's livesare like, emulating her
adventuring great-grandfather, or escaping
a persistent suitor). Whatever the case,
despite her exalted status she is large-
ly unable to draw upon her wealth,
fame, and power in the course of
her adventures, and she and her
companions could be forced to dodge agents from
home seeking to bring her back. Still, hercourtly
experience provides valuable knowledge and
insight, especially when her party deals with
high-ranking government officials.
Classes: Bard, cleric, fighter, marshal,
paladin, sorcerer, warmage, wizard.
Traits: Calm, charming, connected.

SAGE

“That is the vare and valuable Numhatch mushroom

ex

 

 

You can grind it with other additives to make a deadly
poison, smear its juice on your skin fo reduce wrinkles, or stew it
for a tasty meal.”

A sage knowsa lot aboura lot, and he enjoys spreading his
knowledge around. He might be self-righteous and conde-
scending, or he could be humble and kind. Some sages possess
spiritual knowledge and excel ar explaining kinships, natural
connections, one's purpose in life, and otherwise serving as
spiritual guides. Others maintain a vast store of concrete,
useful information. Many specialize, and some adventure to
improve their knowledge in a given field through personal
observation. When the PCs come across something unusual,
they turn to a sage for advice

 
