   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
    

with her companions. A simple soul doesn't drive the party

toward adventure, but she is a reliable and steadfast ally.
Classes: Barbarian, cleric, fighter, rogue, sorcerer.
Traits: Funny, skilled

STRATEGIST

“If you wait here, and you wait there, and you distract the harpies over
here while I cast my spells, we should take them with few difficulties.”

Astrategist likes to think things out. He is at his best when
he's ata desk with a quill, planning. He plans for combat
situations—even those he probably won't encounter—as well
as other circumstances, such as the proper way to address
the court ata victory feast, the right path to take to get to the
dungeon, and the right spells to prepare before an encounter,
He concerns himself with his party's well-being; if he knows
what he's doing, he is a valuable asset.

Classes: Beguiler, duskblade, fighter, marshal, paladin,
rogue, warlock, warmage, wizard,

Traits: Conservative

THEORIST

“Fascinating. And 1 wonder what happens if I cast stone shape in
these circumstances?”

A theorist is equivalent toa scientist in the D&D world. She
adventures to test her ideas and hypotheses and to see what
happens under certain circumstances. Her interests could
lie in magic, either in specific schools or in general (“What
happens if I create illusions of demons in front of angels?”
strategy (“Try using your hammer against the vampire, and
tell me what happens"), medicine (“Well, 1 guess this herb
might help"), or anything else imaginable, A theorist adds
energy and motivation to the adventuring party as she con-
stantly seeks new ideas to understand and new circumstances
under which to perform experiments, Her experiences often
produce useful knowledge, which she and her party can apply
to other adventures in the future.

Classes: Cleric, fighter, marshal, warlock, wizard.

Trait: Disciplined

TRICKSTER

“You go in first, and cover your eyes. I have a surprise for you.”

A trickster has a mind for pranks, bluffs, lies, and surprises.
He likes to cause trouble and excels at misleading and fooling
others, Sometimes he tricks others purely for enjoyment, other
times his skills serve a useful purpose. He prefers subrlety
and persuasion over combat. With his quick wits, a trickster
often speaks for his party, especially when the conversation
is difficult or dangerous.

Classes: Bard, beguiler, rogue, swashbuckler, warlock,
wizard (illusionist).

Traits: Flamboyant, funny.

WANDERER

“T have no home. I have no family. I have no name

Awandererisa mysterious soul. She keeps her past to herself
and doesn't talk much. Perhaps something horrible happened
toherwhen she was younger, Perhaps she committed an unfor
givable crime, ot was accused of a crime she didn't commit

   

  

 

 

 

, erudite, serious

 

    

 

 

 

   

Pethaps she simply got bored. Whatever the case, a wanderer
left her home and has been drifting from place to place ever
since. Her vague and intriguing past can be the impetus for
interesting adventures and roleplaying experiences,
Classes: Barbarian, bard, beguiler, druid, duskblade,
favored soul, hexblade, monk, ranger, rogue, scout, sorcerer,
swashbuckler, warlock.
Traits: Peaceful

 

Described below are thirt

   

personality traits, adjectives that
others might use to describe your character. Select two to four
of these and combine them to create a deep and believable
character. Each trait description begins with a quote that
epitomizes that trait

Some traits lend themselves to certain archetypes, classes,
or alignments. If you are looking for a challenge to stretch
your roleplaying skills, try selecting traits that do not seem
obvious matches for your character's alignment ot archetype
Doing so makes for more interesting characters. An angry,
fatalistic neutral good bard is more unusual, and thus more
memorable, than a friendly, flamboyant neutral good bard.

AMBITIOUS

“T'll be the greatest wizard who e

 

* lived,”

You have big plans. You want to attain the highest
heights and outdo all the rest. One day you'll take your
place in the history books, become a legend, and perhaps
even attain godhood

At the Table: You speak of your plans and dreams. You
make friends with powerful NPCs who might help you,
even if you personally dislike them. The monetary reward
for a successful adventure is nice, but the political favors and
popularity the deed wins you are more important. You care
little for money and gems. Instead, you always want the pick
of magic items and artifacts the group finds. The Leadership
feat is a great way to start your quest for empire or undying
glory. You consider your eager followers to be among your
most valued assets.

ANGRY

“You won't like me. Eve

 

 

You're ticked off all the time. You enjoy taking out your
anger on poor, unsuspecting monsters,

At the Table: You speak in curt sentences when angered.
When it comes time to battle a monster, you use offensive
spells or attacks that deal massive damage. Maximize your
Power Attack feat, or prepare evocation spells that deal large
amounts of damage. When you are angry, you seek to dish
our tremendous punishment as quickly as possible to vent
your temper.

BOASTFUL

“How do you like that, huh? Want some more?

You're a showoff. You gloar about your accomplishments
and disparage your enemies—calling them names, making
rude gestures, and otherwise taunting them.

 

 

   

    
