At the Table: You take mementos from defeated foes and
show them offin public. When a foe or rival challenges your
skill, you never back down. Each strike you deliver comes
with a personal insult to match. When a foe pulls off an
impressive maneuver, you make a big show of your disdain
You might make Intimidate checks to show off your skill
while demoralizing others.

BOLD
“Come, let us crush the enemy where he stands!"
You are brave, eagerly risking your skin to come to grips
with the enemy. Others might call this trait foolhardiness
At the Table: You lead from the front. Unless a rogue or
ranger scouts ahead, you want to be at the forefront of any
attack. You charge the foe in battle to bring the fight to him. In
your mind, the key to victory lies in seizing momentum. Feats
such as Improved Initiative reflect your aggressive attitude,

BRUTAL
“He surrendered? Sorry, I didn't hear it; I was too busy chopping
off Iris head.”

You show little mercy to your enemies, preferring to hit
them until they stop moving.

At the Table: Power Atrack is your calling card if you are a
fighter, A feat such as Spell Focus (evocation) captures the feel
of this trait for spellcasters. Too much damage is never enough.
The more destruction you can reap, the better. Unlike an angry
character, you fight with a cold, calculating demeanor. An
angry character with Power Attack might leap into the fray
and convert her full base artack bonus into damage, while you
play the odds and slowly but steadily increase your damage
to deliver the maximum amount of punishment.

CALM

“Yes, Isee the dragon. What's the big deal?"

You remain unfazed even in dire circumstances. You could
be supremely confident, you could be otherworldly, or you
could just be hard to impress.

At the Table: You are the eye at the center of the storm.
You rely on reason and rationality despite the chaos that rages
around you, While others shout and argue, you always speak
in calm, measured tones. When you do lose your temper, your
friends remember the event for years to come. The Iron Will
feat reflects your indomitable spirit. Even an evil wizard's
spells can't break your will.

CAREFREE

“Ah, it doesn't matter if we wake the wizard. What's the worst he
can do, kill us?"

You have trouble taking things seriously. To you, advenrur-
ing is a big game.

At the Table: Nothing gets you down, regardless of how
daunting a situation might be. You let the fates take you
where they may. Your attitude can prove annoying to stuffy,
lawful types, but in the face of grave danger your carefree
ways lighten the mood and bring hope to the party. The bard
class is a great match for this trait, since its musical abilities
reflect your ability to bring hope to your allies,

CHARMING

“Let me hold that for you, my lady,”

You go out of your way to abserve social niceties. You might
or might not have ulterior motives.

At the Table: Every word you speak is a tool calculated to
help get you whar you want. You are calm when the group
needs a rational yoice and smoothly effective when it's time
to take down a monster. Like a master politician, you always
work a room, seeking to win people over and make them like
you. Putas many ranks as possible into Diplomacy to reflect
your winning personality.

CONNECTED

“You'd better not be insulting my sister.”

You have a historical connection with one of the other
party members. You might be siblings, childhood friends,
or fellow students of the same master, You might like each
other, or you might not; it's also possible that one or both
of you is unaware of your connection, Perhaps one of you
was sent to protect the other or otherwise keep an eye
on her.

At the Table: When the group faces a problem, you invari-
ably find someone who can help you. When you entera tavern,
you strike up a conversation with the bartender, gossip with
the locals, and otherwise fit right in. You swap stories, share
news, and make friends even in a foreign land. The Gather
Information skill is an excellent tool to showcase this trait.
When the group needs to learn the latest news, you draw on
your social network to hear what's out there.

CONSERVATIVE

“The old ways are the best ways."

You like order and stability, You believe that if the current
system supports these qualities, you should work to ensure
its longevity.

At the Table: You prefer tried and true methods over new
ideas. [fan old trick or tactic worked before, you'd rather try
itagain than work on a new plan that might or might not be
as effective. You are slow and deliberate, believing that rash
thought and quick actions are a good way to get yourself in
trouble. During a battle, you hang back and wait for your foes
to tip their hands. Rather than charge, you prefer to move
forward slowly and ready an attack.

DISCIPLINED

“An hour of meditation and prayer before sleep.”

You are rigorous and structured in your personal endeavors.
This trait can manifest as constant combat training, time
spend in meditation or prayer, monitoring the food you eat
and the liquids you drink, and similar activities.

At the Table; You go through an exercise or meditation
tegimen each morning. If you miss ir, you feel uneasy about
the lapse in routine for the rest of the day. In your mind, your
body is as much a tool as your sword, armor, or spellbook. It
needs rest and proper care, You insist on getting a full night's
sleep whenever possible, and you expect others to meet your
standards. The Iron Will feat does a good job of reflecting
your dedication.

 
