   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
      

DRIVEN

“don't care how many vampires the inscription says are beyond
this door, I'm going to get it open."

You are relentless in your pursuit of tasks. You might be
driven only when you are involved in specific tasks (slaying
demons, saving a friend), or you might be driven in every-
thing you do.

At the Table: You never give up. Even ina hopeless situa-
tion, your impulse is to keep fighting, During the game, take
20 as often as possible—you're determined to keep trying
until you succeed. You steadily overwhelm obstacles with
your tireless devotion. The force of your will batters down
your foes. The Great Fortitude feat allows you to display your
indomitable nature.

NERGETIC

“Okay, we've killed the trolls and grabbed the treasure and bypass
the fraps—what's next?”

You brim with energy. Maybe you eat too much suger or
ingest too much caffeine, or maybe it's just in your nature,
but for whatever reason, you're always ready to take on the
next task, challenge, or mission.

At the Table: You never take 20, That activity requires
patience and focus that you simply lack, In battle, you are
always in motion. The Improved Initiative feat does a great
job of reflecting your nature, as does the Tumble skill.

ERUDITE

“Our current plight derives directly from our dearth of avreate
yemuneration.”

You are well schooled, and you like to show it off. You use
big words just because you can.

Atthe Table: Purchase ranks in as many Knowledge skills as
possible. Spread them around if your primary skills are maxed
out. A broad range of knowledge allows you to answer almost
any question. Make references to the campaign setting’s past.
An orc invasion might remind you ofa previous humanoid
incursion, and you speak of that attack at length to advise your
allies. Work with the DM to gain access to more background and
history of the campaign world that you can work into play.

EXOTIC

“Where I come from, this is normal,"

You're different from most people of the region, You might
be from an atypical culture or of a different race; you could
belong to an unusual religion or organization. Others see
you as strange and interesting, and they might be prejudiced
against you or attracted to you

At the Table: You find the local practices and traditions
fascinating. You use a distinctive greeting, and you dress in
your native land’s garb. The Exotic Weapon Proficiency feat
isa good choice to demonstrate your culture's unique aspects
Alternatively, you can fight with a trident or scythe or other
weapon that PCs rarely use. If you are an arcane spellcaster,
choose spells that a typical member of your class rarely
employs (new spells out of this book would be a good start
If you are a divine spellcaster, work with your DM to find a
suitable little-known deity.

 

 

 

 

 

   

FATALISTIC

None of us is long for this world.”

The end is coming. Maybe you'll help it ger here faster.

At the Table: You fight with a fanatic’s energy and convic-
tion. You are a relentless foe and a great ally. Since the world is
abourto end, you do what you can to help your allies and smite
your foes. Place ranks in Knowledge (religion) to reflect your
mastery of dogma and prophecy. You study both your chosen
faith and the religions of heretics, the better to fight them.

FLAMBOYANT

“with a twist of my sword, a couple of steps to the right, and
The apple is sliced neatly in two!

 

 

hat

 

You do everything with flash and panache, You're never at
a loss for words, and you don't mind standing out in a crowd.
Your dress and fighting style are particularly distinctive,

At the Table: Weapon Finesse and Combat Expertise are
a great combination for a fighter who prefers speed, agility,
and grace over brute force, A flamboyant caster uses spells
with dramatic visual effects, such as lightning bolt

FUNNY
“What did the fighter say when asked if he liked mutton? ‘Sword
of? Ha!"

You have a sense of humor. Others might or might not
appreciate it. Many kinds of humor exist; yours might be
quick-wirted, slapstick, pun-heavy, anachronistic, vulgar, inap-
propriate, cle st some combination of thes

At the Table: The Perform (comedy) skill is perfect for
you. When your group goes to a tavern, you make jokes and
do you best to entertain everyone. Even if you have amassed
a great fortune, you still love putting on a performance at the
local watering hole for a few coins.

GREEDY
“Let's loot ‘em!’

You love to amass money and other forms of materialistic
rewards, Recognition means little to you in comparison to
the thrill you feel when you stand over a defeated monster's
treasure hoard.

Atthe Table: The Appraise skill is your favorite tool. When
exploring a ruin, you take the time to check over anything
that looks valuable. While everyone else gathers an ogre lord's
coins and gems, you pull off his boots and armor to sell back
in town.

KIND

There, does that feel better?”

You go out of your way to help people, with no desire for
a reward in return. Others see you as a nice person.

At the Table: You carry extra potions to heal your allies,
along with ammunition, food, water, and other goods to keep
the group going. When you have to choose between attacking
a foe and using aid another to help an ally, you usually opt
for the second choice.

LOYAL

“You can count on me.

 

   

 
