You never let your allies down, abandon them, or betray
them, and you stay by their sides even when it irritates them.

At the Table: fron Will and other feats that improve your
saving throws are right up your alley. Even a foe's spells
cannot necessarily prevent you from helping your allies.

MERCIFUL

“He surrendered. Let's let him go."

You show leniency to defeated enemies. You might have
ulterior motives for your generosity.

At the Table: When facing a badly injured foe, use a free
action to offer it the option to surrender, Ready an attack to
strike if it keeps fighting you.

NAIVE
“Why is that person angry at me?”

You are inexperienced and perhaps led a sheltered exis-
tence before becoming an adventurer, You sometimes make
mistakes because you don't know any better, but you mean
well, and your naiveté lends you a certain charm.

At the Table: You make social gaffes due to your insular
outlook, While others navigate situations with tactand aplomb,
you stumble ahead like a bull in a china shop. Avoid placing
ranks in Charisma-based skills, particular Gather Informa-
tion and Intimidate. A poor Wisdom score, and the attendant
low Will save, illustrates your naive nature.

PATRIOTIC
“For the glory of the queen!”

You are devoted to your country, right or wrong.

At the Table: You prefer to fight in your homeland’s
traditional style. Your weapons, armor, and spells are more
than simple tools—they are symbols of your homeland. Feats
such as Weapon Focus and Spell Focus illustrate your tight
bond with such symbols.

PEACEFUL

“Wait, this does not have to end in bloodshed!”

You dislike combat and killing, preferring to use diplomacy,
subtlety, trickery, and other nonviolent means to solve your
problems. However, when there is no other choice, you draw
steel alongside your allies,

Atthe Table: The Diplomacy skill is your best asset, since you
can use ir to smooth out confrontations that might otherwise
turn violent. Whenever you have a chance, step into a situation
and use a few carefully considered words to defuse tensions.

REFORMED

“1 used to kell people for money, but that was in another part of
my life,”

You have gone through a significant life change, Perhaps
you're an ex-criminal turning overa new leaf ora new devotee
ofareligion. Perhaps you're a former nice guy who has decided
that kindness doesn't pay.

Atthe Table: A few ranks in Hide and Move Silently betray
your past. You might also invest skill points in Open Lock
and Search, depending on the sorts of crimes you once took
part in.

RELIGIOUS

"Kord grant me strength.

You revere a higher power. You might worship a single
deity, or you might include all the gods in your prayers.

At the Table: Knowledge (religion) is more than a source
of trivia and information for you. It provides you counsel and
advice in almost any situation, When you argue with others,

you cite scripture and religious teachings as important points
of debate.

SERIOUS

“How can you think of dancing at a time like this?”

You take everything seriously and have little or no sense
of humor,

Atthe Table; You grumble when others make jokes or venture
off topic. During a planning session, you are the one who calls
for order and keeps things organized. Invest a few ranks in
Knowledge skills to give you the experience and insight needed
to back up your demand for focus and careful planning.

SKILLED

“Spiced crab legs tonight!"

Before you were an adventurer, you were a skilled at some
other trade. You might have been a blacksmith, a chef, ashep-
herd, a dancer, a sneak thief, or just about anything else.

At the Table; Invest ranks in Profession and Craft skills.
Whenever you have the chance to use them, leap atthe oppor-
tunity. Depending on the nature of your skills, you might carry
a full set of tools even into a dangerous dungeon. For example,
askilled cook insists on carrying the group's food and prepar-
ing a nice meal each evening, while a skilled dancer looks for
likely partners at the local tavern and accepts invitations to
the local lord's ball as a matter of course.

VENGEFUL
“Giants? Wipe them out. All of them.”

You have a grudge against a particular creature type,
organization, country, or individual. Perhaps the offenders
killed your family, burned your village, or kicked you when
you were little.

At the Table: Take a level of ranger to gain the favored
enemy class feature against your chosen foe. Make notes
on each opponent you face and track the reasons you have
to seek vengeance against them. The Power Attack feat, or
spells that deal lots of explosive damage, are good choices to
mete out punishment against your chosen foes.

BEING A GOOD PLAYER

This section offers some specific ideas on how to make each
game session a more enjoyable experience for you and for
everyone else at the table.

MANAGING THE PAPERWORK
Every D&D player uses a lot of paper. You have a character
sheets that might be many pages in length. You mightalso have
sheets that list the spells available to you, your equipment,

 
