   
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
         

pages of notes from adventures present and past, and your
plans for the future. In addition, you probably have books
like this one lying around the playing space,

The following bits of advice can help you manage this
paperwork.

Write Everything in Pencil: This caveat is most impor
tant when it comes to your character sheer, Since the numbers
and names that summarize your character's abilities will
change over the course of your character's career, and even
during specific adventures or rounds, you want to be able to
mark the changes on your character sheet. Eventually, your
character sheet will be smudged and torn from writing, eras-
ing, and rewriting; feel free to treat yourself to a new sheet
at this point.

Do Things the Same Way Your Friends Do: If you and
the other players keep track of your characters’ statistics in
the same way, you save time and effort when one playercan't
show up and another has to take control of his character. How
do you record hit points? Attack bonuses? Used spells? Ir
helps to talk about these details and settle on a standard way
of doing things. This way, you can spend less time trying to
decipher a friend's code and more time playing the game.

Keep Track of Your Character Sheet; Losing yourchar-
acter sheet is bad. You then have to recreate the character as
best you can or, in extreme circumstances, scrap it and start
a new character. If you discover your sheet is missing at the
beginning of a session, you delay the game and waste your
fellow players’ time. Make sure you store your character
sheet properly and, if you cannot make it to a game session,
send it along with one of your friends. Better yet, your DM
could keep backup copies of all your group's character sheets,
updated on a regular basis, so he can assign someone to play a
character as an NPC in the event of that player's unexpected
absence. Some DMs play custodian for all their players’
character sheets, collecting them at the end of a session and
passing them our again at the beginning of the next—thereby
absolving you of all responsibility in the matter.

‘Use Page Notations: Inevitably, you'll have to flip through
a rulebook at some point, perhaps to look up exactly how a
feat, spell, or special ability functions, You can save time in
this process by writing down page and book references on
your character sheet for any complex or unusual feature. For
example, if you select a spell from this book, next to it you
might write “PH? 105," indicating the book and page number
where the description is printed.

Know What Your Stuff Does: Even better than page
notations, it’s best if you simply know how your spells, feats,
items, and special abilities function, When in doubt, quickly
review them before a session.

Plan Your Combat Actions: When it's not your turn in
combat, you should be thinking about what you're going to do

when it is your turn. Flip through a rulebook and make sure
you know the pertinent details about the spell you are going
to cast. Then, when your turn comes up, the other players
don't have to wait for you to figure out what you wanr to do. If
possible, also have a backup plan in case things change sud-
denly before your turn (new foes enter the bartle, the character
you had planned to attack goes down, or the like),

 

 

 

   

Keep Track of Timed Effects: Many spells and other
effects have durations measured in rounds. [fyou employ such
a spell or ability, it’s your responsibility to keep track of the
duration (the DM has plenty of other things to worry abour).
One good way of keeping track of time is to make tally marks
ona piece of scrap paper. Another technique is to use a die to
keep track of the time—either counr up for the total duration
orcount down for time remaining; ar the start of your turn each
round, turn the die to the next number. Be careful, though,
that you don't accidentally roll this “duration die.”

Rely on DM Arbitration: Playing the game is more impor-
tant than looking up rules, Good Dungeon Masters don't like
taking time away from the game to page through rulebooks,
and so they often provide instant rulings on debated topics
instead of suspending gameplay for a time-intensive rule
search. Go along with the DM's arbitration, and then after
the game or during a break you can look up the official rule
and let your DM know; this information will be useful the
next time that rule comes up.

Have All Pertinent Statistics on Hand: If your character
has a familiar, animal companion, mount, cohort, or similar
ally, make sure you have the proper statistics handy.

Use Electronic Aids: While they are by no means necessary,
laptop computers and PDAs are valuable assets, They cut down
on search time and on table clutter, You can keep an electronic
character sheet and update it when you attain a new level ortake
poison damage. (Electronic character sheets also reduce the risk
of losing a character sheet—and if you lose your laptop, you
have bigger problems to worry about.) Numerous software pro-
grams that help you create D&D characters and use electronic
character sheets are available, The System Reference Document
is available for free on the Wizards of the Coast website, and it
includes most of the spells and feats in the Player's Handbook,
Typing “Crel-F, fireball" is much faster than paging through
a book searching for the appropriate reference.

ROLLING CONVENTIONS

You roll a lot of dice in a typical D&D game. The following
are common rolling conventions that you can use if you like;
they accelerate gameplay and reduce ambiguity.

Decide What to Do if the Dice Land Cocked: You, your
fellow players, and the DM should agree on what to do ifa die
lands on the floor or ends up cocked against a book (or a DM
scteen, or a can of soda, or a pizza box), Do you reroll the die?
Take the result from the floor? Move the book and let the die
fall naturally? Any of these optionsis fine, but you should decide
before the start of a new campaign and be specific, The same
rules should apply to all the players as well as the DM.

Supply Your Own Dice: Though everyone can share the
same set of dice, play proceeds faster and smoother if every
player has his or her own dice. You should have all the dice
you think you need to play your character, so that you don't
have to borrow dice from the other players, (D&D players are
also infamous for having superstitions about other people
touching their dice, and you don't want to come between a
D&D player and her superstitions.)

Roll Attack and Damage Dice at One Time: If you're
ina large group and combat is taking an inordinate amount

  
