of time at the table, consider streamlining your dice rolling,
When making an attack, roll the d20 for your attack roll and
the die or dice for your damage roll at the same time. (For ex-
ample, if you are attacking with a +2 flaming longsword, roll a
20, a d8, and a dé all at the same time.) If your attack roll is
successful, you know how much damage you deal and thus
save yourself a second roll. (Rolls don't take a long time, but
you make so many of them that
anything you can do to ac-
celerate them is good for
the game.) Lf your attack

is unsuccessful, ignore

the damage.

This technique encoun-
ters problems when it meets
with abilities that allow you to
alter yourchance to hit after you
make your attack roll, For
example, action points (de-
scribed in Unearthed Arcana
and the Eberron Campaign
Setting) allow you to add 1d6 to your attack

roll's result after you roll the die,ifyousochoose.If Color-coded dice make
rolling faster and easier

you make your attack rolls and damage rolls simul-
taneously, you are more likely to spend that action
point if your damage roll is high. To avoid these circumstances,
roll the attack and damage dice separately if you have action
points or a similar ability that can turn a miss into a hit.

Roll Multiple Attacks at One Time: If you have more than
one attack, and you know you are going to use them all against
the same target, regardless of how the firstone turns out, roll all
your attack dice at the same time. If you also roll damage simul-
taneously, as suggested above, you need some way to determine
which damage dice belong to which attack. You might use
color-coded dice (see below) or roll them with separate hands
on opposite sides of a barrier (such as a book).

Use Color-Coded Dice: You can use dice of certain colors
to designate specific attacks and damage types, For example,
if you make two attacks and roll the attack and damage dice
at the same time, using d20s of different colors and damage
dice that match those colors avoids confusion. For example,
when you are making two attacks in the same round that
each deal 18 points of damage if successful, roll a yellow
d20, a yellow d8, a red d20, and a red d8 all at the same time.
You can also use color-coded dice to specify different damage
types. When you shoot the demon with your +2 holy flaming
shock longbow, roll two white dés for the holy damage, a red
dé for the fire damage, and a yellow dé for the electricity
damage. This technique is helpful because some monsters
are resistant or vulnerable to specific damage types.

RESPECT THE SPOTLIGHT
Players take turns in a D&D game, and not just in combat.
Characters always want to perform various activities, and the
DM can focus on only one at a time. The spotlight consists
of the DM's attention, and the game's current focus. Which
character is active? Which player is telling the DM what he
wants his character to do? That player has the spotlight.

 

    
  

The spotlight is a fun place to be, That's when you are
active, when you are playing the game to its utmost potential.
Because it's a good time, sometimes players are tempted to
claim more than their fair share and remain in the spotlight
for adisproportionate amount of time.

Players who hog the spotlight are bad for the game, because
they decrease everyone else’s involvement and therefore their
fun. Ifyou find yourself often demanding the DM's attention —
if your character likes to do things such as head into town

to pick pockers, rob houses, chat with the priestesses
at the local temple, play music in inns to
make a few gold pieces, and the like—
be conscious of it. Some activities of
this nature are fine, and they add
depth and realism to your char-
acter and to the game world,

but you don't want to take a

great deal of time away from

your fellow players, When
another player gets her time in
the spotlight, let her have it—as
long as she doesn't abuse it.
A couple of spotlights deserve
special mention.

The NPC-Interaction Spotlight: Roleplaying
interactions with NPCs is one of the most enjoyable activities
in a D&D game, and every player who wants to participate
should have a chance to do so. Even if the party has a member
who serves as its spokesperson—a charismatic bard or paladin,
for example—a good DM supplies opportunities for other
players to interact with NPCs. Perhaps the paladin is otherwise
occupied, or maybe the party runs into a nefarious individual
for whom the rogue would be a better choice to carry on discus-
sions. Maybe an old acquaintance or relative of one of the other
characters shows up. Whatever the case, be respectful of the
NPC-interaction spotlight and of your fellow players. If they
look bored, relinquish the spotlight in good grace

‘The Dungeon Spotlight: Dungeons are big places with
lots of doors and hallways. It is easy for a character, especially a
stealthy one, to head out on his own and doa bit of exploring—
and perhaps some combat and treasure-looting—away from
the rest of the party, This strategy strains the game, because
the DM must then split her attention and time between the
solo character and the rest of the party. If you find yourself
tempted to break away from the party, you might want to ask
the other players first. ("What do you think about me scouting
down this passageway?") If your character simply wanders off,
forcing the DM to take time away from the other players, they
might (rightly) resent you for it—so don't do it. You might
make the claim, “But this is what my character would do!” If
that’s the case, rethink your character concept. The game is
at its most enjoyable for everyone when the characters help
each other and every player has a satisfying amount of time
in the spotlight.

OTHER CONCERNS

The following pieces of advice are also helpful but do not
involve rolling dice or managing paperwork.

 
 
   

 

 

  
 

=
=
=
s
&
=
=

 
