CHAPTERS
BUILDINGYOUR,
IDENTITY,

Tilus. by F. Vobwinkel

Gimble demands

Avoid Distractions:

 

d&D games often take place in areas
surrounded by potential distractions: TVs, video games
books, and the like. Since you're spending time with your
friends, another temptation is to chai

 

and joke at the expense
of the game, While some of this sort of activity is fun, and
you play D&D to have fun, don't let the entire session pass
in idle banter or witty repartee—especially if some players
are not partaking in it

In general, keep your attention focused on the game. Your
fellow players might think you rude if you leave the table to
surf the Internet or play video games, or if you distract other
players with side conversations.

Help Your DM: The DM does a lot of work. If you clear
off the table,
playing space, he or she will appreciate it

TALK ABOUT YOUR CHARACTER

D&D characters are at their best when they are more than

get the pencils out, and otherwise prepare the

 

just collections of numbers and words written on character
sheets. This chapter discusses ways to add depth, motivation,
and realism to your character, but these techniques

 

re of
limited use if you keep them to yourself. You should talk
about your character

Tell the other players about her. When the other characters
first meet her, what impression do they get? How does she look?
How does she move? Many players find fun and satisfaction
in roleplaying their character's initial interactions with the
other characters. The way she talks and the things she says

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
     

 

 

character is the silent, mysterious type, describe some of her

actions, Do her eyes dart constantly about, examining the area
for trouble? Does she stare morosely into her drink? Does she
rub an old scar on her neck every so often? All these types of
behavior make your character seem more like a real person
Many D&D campaigns begin with strong player
characters—they have interesting histories, developed
personalities, and distinctive appearances. However, often
these valuable details fade over the course of adventuring
Players are pretty good at remembering their own characters,
but they sometimes forget the histories, appearances, names,
racters, Therefore, continued

discussion about your character is important. Interact with

or even gender of the other

 

one of the other PCs or an }

 

C to keep your character's
personality fresh in everyone's mind. Mention how he walks
or looks when he meets a new character or encounters a new
challenge; describe how a new piece of equipment fits in with
the rest of his appearance

The best character movies and novels change as the

 

 

story progresses, and the best characters ina D&D game are
no different. How does your character evolve over the course
of her adventures? What life-changing events have occurred

to her? Howare herb

 

eliefs, values, and views about the other

 

 

characters different from what they were before?

Tall about your chai

 

acter and inserting characteristic

details into the game make for a more fun and memorable

 

time for everyone at the table.
