  

YF .

very game has moments when particularcharacters

shine, Players might tell and retell the story of the

fighter taking out the ogre, or the rogue disabling the

trap, or the wizard dispelling an enemy's magical

defenses, or the cleric destroying the vampire, But

such moments of glory are only part of what makes the D&D

experience’so exciting. The deéds of individual characters

mighrbe the stuff of game-table legends, but it's their teamwork
that gets the job done in one adventure after another,

Team play is perhaps the most important aspect of the D&D

 

 

tainly solo play can be rewarding, but answering the

 

game, (
callto adventureasa group is far more entertaining. Ina group,
the interplay between differing points of view brings both
players and characters into conflict from time to time. When
they learn to resolve their differences and pull together toward
acommon goal, they can achieve fargreater results than any
of them—no matter how powerful—could achieve alone
This chapter examines what it means to be an adventuring
party and how parties fir together within a campaign setting.
Italso offers advice for becoming a better team player and for
making the most of your group, whatever its composition.

In many campaigns, the reasons why a particular group of

adventurers came together in the first place are either glossed
lover.or passed off as mere circumstance. At most, a couple

   

fopsaopy “yy Mg ‘sup

S

c

   
 
 
 
 
     
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 

of intrepid roleplayers might establish a relationship by
making their characters siblings, childhood friends, or
past lovers—or they could even concoct ashared eventin
their past, such as a-debr that bound them together, Bur
few groups extend this concept to the entire party,
Establishing a party's reason for existence can enhance
the roleplaying experience, promote teamwork, and play
key rolé in keeping the group together in the face of
the inevitable conflicts and disagreements, Ifthe players
Thow-whiy the characters began working togethetin the
firstpplace, the ties between them immediately become

oy)

Ja

stronger, and individual players are encouraged to work
togetheras a team

One way to build a strong group is to select a party
background. Each of the backgrounds detailed below
describes a shared event, commitment, or state of being
thatcan help to holda party together, These backgrounds
can be usedas written, orthey canserveas guidelines
for creating others.

CHARTER

The concept of a charter was first introduced in the
Forcorren Realms campaign setting. Essentially,
your characters form their own organization by becom-
ing a group of adventurers for hire

Establishing a charter takes a bit of work up front.

To avoid conflicts later, everyone at the tableshouldbe F V6

 

NERD A Telerel ale

 

.

   

  
