   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
   

involved in working out the ground rules for the group. The
DM needs to be involved in the process as well, since the tone
and nature of the charter will probably affect the overall flow
of the campaign.

The first order of business is to define the purpose of your
group and decide on its short-term and long-term goals. Next
determine what kinds of characters your group will accept

as members. Choose an alignment and exclude charact!

  

who have alignments more than a step ot two away from that
one, For instance, if your charter demands that the group be
committed to order and goodness, you probably wouldn't
want to accept a chaotic evil character. You can also extend
the restrictions to cover certain classes, races, and even house
rules if desired, as long as those limitations can be framed

 

rac

  

  

CHAPTER 6
HEADVENTURING

in the context of the game world. You should also consider
what functions are needed—does the group have a divine
spellcaster, a person who can disable traps, a melee combat
ant and a ranged fighter, and so forth? Finally, consider the
types of employers your characters are willing to work for
and what kind of missions they will accept

Once your charter is complete, write it out on paper.
Doing so adds a measure of depth to the words, and having
it prominently displayed during game s
remind everyone that the characters have bound themselves
together for a purpose.

Not only does having a charter enhance roleplaying and
deepen players’ and characters’ commitment to the party, but
it also carries other benefits, Your group gains a reputation as

ions serves to

 

Illus. by F. Volrwinkel

Four young dwarves vow vengeanc

against those who destroyed their stra

 

aunit within the campaign world, which can make it easier
to access services and even gain credit with merchants. Later
in the campaign, when characters fall in combat or retire,
it's

 

easy to explain where replacements come from, since
word of your group's heroics will have spread throughout
the lands, Eventually, your party could even gain the same
kind of prominence and notoriety that the Harpers enjoy in
the Forcorren REALMs setting

CHILDHOOD FRIENDSHIP

Your group has been together since childhood, Perhaps
the characters’ parents, once adventurers themselves, were
in the habit of entertaining their offspring with tales of
fierce dragons, terrible sorcery, and vicious monsters. In
such a situation, it would be only natural for the youngsters

 

to follow in their parents’

 

otsteps upon coming of age
and perhaps even try to surpass the achievements of their
heroic forebears.

This background works especially well for a party whose
members all belong to the same race, such as a group consist-
ing solely of dwarves, elves, or halflings. Such a shared racial
heritage can add yet another interesting dimension to your
games. For instance, suppose you and the other players jointly
decide that your dwarf characters all came from the same
stronghold, Life changed for all of you when a horde of mind
flayers and their minions boiled up out of the underground
and overwhelmed your settlement. The dwarves who were not
slain outright were enslaved and tal

  

  

n back to the cyclopean

 
