depths of the mind flayer city, never to be seen again. Now
your group, which was away on another mission at the time
of the illithid attack, is all that's left of the clan. All the
characters have taken a joint vow of vengeance against the
denizens of the subterranean realm, and their goal is to free
their enslaved people and restore the clan.

Agroup need not be racially homogeneous to have a shared
childhood. Half-ores, halfelves, humans, and halflings all
teach maturity at around the same time, and dwarves and
gnomes do so about 20 years later. Thus, the characters could
easily have metas adolescents—perhaps when they all attended
the same academy or neighboring institutions. Once all the
characters graduated, they decided to stick together and strike
out fora life of adventure. Characters in this model might be
siblings, old flames, rivals, or just close friends.

CHOSEN

A popular motif for long-running campaigns is the conceptof
ashared destiny. Fate has decreed that one or more characters
shall be in a certain place ata certain time, either to perform
some great deed or to overcome a particularly nasty opponent.
Perhaps the group's paladin has been chosen to wrest the rod
of Orcus from the demon prince's grasp, or to save the Bastion
of Souls. Or maybe the group as a whole will one day save the
country, continent, or world from some terrible nemesis.

While the characters who are actually saddled with such
a destiny are undoubtedly the center of the group, the other
PCs play an equally important role—namely, ensuring that
the prophesied event happens as it should. Without their
assistance, the fated characters cannot hope to accomplish
the task set before them. Alternatively, the characters might
know that one of their number has been chosen to perform a
given task, but not who it is. This arrangement ensures that
the characters are motivated to work together while each one
dreams that he will be the linchpin of some great future event.
And even if the DM has already decided who should be the
Chosen One, he can still change his mind if that chara
dies, or the player leaves the group.

Perhaps the ideal situation, though, is for fate to choose the
entire party for the task. In this model, the avatar of a deity (or
a powerful mage, noble, or prophet) hand-picks the characters
and sets them on the path to greatness. The great and noble
cause they champion (or the unbearable burden they bear)
unites the party members and encourages them to believe that
all must survive to fulfill the prophecy. This commitment to one
another's survival in turn promotes party unity and teamwork,
since each character must place a higher value on the lives and
actions of his fellows than he otherwise would,

CIRCUMSTANCE

In some D&D campaigns, the adventuring party is formed
when four heroes who have just met in a bar are hired for a
dangerous mission by a shadowy individual in the corner.
While this background is certainly the easiest to concoct, it
does litle to encourage teamwork and party unity. In fact,
such a model relies on the relationships between players to
keep the group together rather than those that evolve naturally
among the characters.

 

  

 

ter

 

 

Nevertheless, you can still use circumstance to advantage
when building an adventuring party. The characters might
be escaped slaves or fugitives who find a common purpose
in escaping a shared enemy. Or a terrible calamity could
befall the environment, and the characters could emerge
as champions of the affected people. Or perhaps a band of
reavers is plundering and destroying every settlement they
come across, and the characters must band together to combat
the common enemy.

Acircumstance background relies heavily on the DM'sinter-
vention, since he must provide the catalyst that brings the group
together. For example, the DM might open the campaign ona
gruesome battlefield and reveal that the PCs are all survivors
from the same squad. They knew little about one another before
the bartle; they were simply thrown into the same unit because
of the way the orders fell. Alternatively, the DM might rule that
the characters are all from the same region, but they hail from
widely separated villages. After a plague swept through the
land and emptied several communities, the survivors grouped
together to seek a way to rebuild.

ORGANIZATION

One of the simplest methods for building an adventuring
party is to base it on membership in the same organization.
Characters who are loyal toa guild, order, or some other group
should extend that loyalty to other members as a matter of
course. For example, the Order of Illumination (see Complete
Adventurer, page 179) exists to root out evil wherever it lurks
and confront it directly, Since membership is open only to
those who are pure of heart, the players are automatically
encouraged to create characters of similar alignments.

While working on behalf of such an organization, the
party is unlikely to run out of missions to perform. The
characters receive their orders from the organization's
leaders, and they gain experience points and treasure with
every job they perform. In time, the characters can move
up through the ranks of the organization, and perhaps one
day even lead it

The primary drawback to this model is the potential
difficulty of getting everyone to agree on the organization.
Some organizations are class-based or have strict membership
requirements that might prevent certain characters from
joining. But if everyone in your group likes this approach,
have each player state his character interests first, then select
an organization together, with the DM's assistance.

  

Choosing a background is just the first step in building a
party. Ideally, an adventuring party should include a good
mixture of classes and races, since each brings a particular set
of useful abilities to the table. Abilities that no one else has not
only makea character unique, but they also allow hera chance
in the spotlight on a regular basis. When characters’ abilities
overlap, the chance for individuals to shine diminishes, and
the party's ability to handle new threats lessens

This section presents advice for working with your fellow
players to build an effective adventuring party.

 
