  

ADVENTURING PARTY BASICS

Atypical adventuring party consists of four characters, each
representing one of the iconic elements of fantasy roleplay-
ing. The fighter, the wizard, the cleric, and the rogue form
the classic group. The fighter relies on weapons to mete out
damage and wears armor to avoid injury. The wizard uses
spells to destroy enemies and to circumvent hazards. The
cleric supports the other characters through healing spells
and “buff” spells that enhance abilities, though he can also
aid the fighter in combat. The rogue bypasses traps, assists
the fighter and cleric on the battlefield, and brings to bearan
impressive skill set that makes her the party's “go-to” person
in just about any situation.

The D&D game offers many other classes, but the rest are
variations on these core themes. The druid shares many of
the cleric’s spells but also has specialized abilities that allow
her to thrive in wilderness environments. The ranger, an
amalgam of both the druid and the fighter classes, has some
of the druid’s abilities plus bonus feats based on a chosen
combat style. In like manner, the paladin blends the abilities
of the cleric with those of the fighter. The monk isa fighting
character who eschews armor to gain more mobility on the
battlefield, and the bard blends the skills of the rogue with
asmattering of magic from multiple classes. In short, almost
every other class beyond the basic four is a combination,
variation, or extension of the four basic themes.

Consider carefully how your character choice will interact
with those of your fellow players in an adventuring party. Ef
two people want to play rogues, and your group has only four
players, the party might have to do without one of the four
key elements unless someone else chooses a character whose
abilities cover the missing theme. Even choosing characters
similar to those in the ideal party can create problems. For
example, choosing druid or a paladin in place of a cleric, or
a bard instead of a rogue can produce severe consequences
for a party that cannot fill the gaps in expertise. The same
problem exists with the new standard classes presented in
recent publications. What must the other characters do to
compensate when a party includes a warlock instead of a
wizard, for instance?

Proper character class selection is vital to the long-term
success of an adventuring party, The choices you make when
building your team determine the group's ability to face off
against the denizens of the dungeon as well as the horrors
of the wilds. The following sections examine the four basic
character roles—warrior, expert, arcane spellcaster, and
divine spellcaster—as well as the implications of alternative
class choices. Each section also provides some advice on how
to compensate for deviations from the four iconic classes.

 

  

Warriors
The popularity of fighting charactersis largely attributable to
ease of play and overall satisfaction. The fighter's broad selec
tion of feats, the ranger’s array of abilities, the barbarian's raw
destructive power, and the leadership potential of the paladin
all offer exciting options for adventuring, Perhaps the biggest
appeal of these classes, however, is that their primary abilities
are never tapped out—they can always kill monsters

 

    

   
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
 

Asa warrior, your job is to stall the opponents with melee
or ranged attacks long enough for the other party members
to bring their special abilities to bear. You buy time for the
arcane spellcaster to destroy the monster with a spell, or the
cleric to turn the undead, or the rogue to eliminate tough
opponents with sneak artacks. And if you happen to kill a
bunch of goblins along the way, so much the better. When
playing a warrior, it pays to think both offensively and defen-
sively, You are consistently the heaviest hitter in the group,
and you never run out of swings, However, you should also
try to preserve yourself, since you are the last line of defense
before the monsters reach the wizard and the cleric.

Fighter: The backbone of any adventuring group, the
fighter is versatile, potent, and highly customizable because
he can branch out into several feat trees that hone his skills
in both melee and ranged combat. However, the best fighters
are those whose abilities are broad enough to give them an
edge over any kind of foe. Thus, when playing a fighter, you
should resist the temptation to specialize in one feat path too
exclusively. If possible, keep your ranged combat prowess as
strong as your melee ability so that you can take on fliers and
ground forces with equal proficiency.

Barbarian: A barbarian is primarily a melee combatant
His rage ability augments his Strength and Constitution—
the two characteristics that are most valuable in face-to-face
fighting. Bur the fact that Survival and Listen are among his
class skills also makes him a great (albeit reckless) scout.

Unlike the fighter, the barbarian has only enough feat choices
to develop one or maybe two feat paths. So if your barbarian is
the party's primary melee warrior, the burden of ranged attack
support falls on the party's spellcasters and experts. Thus, the
arcane spellcasters should emphasize ranged spells that deal
hit point damage. The party's experts also need to focus on
developing their ranged attack prowess—particularly the
rogue's ability to launch sneak attacks against targets up to
30 feet away.

Monk: Another great warrior choice, the monk is excellent
at slipping past the ranks of lesser foes to focus her attacks on
the leaders. Her great saving throws, evasion, and resistance
to mind-affecting spells and abilities make her far and away
the best warrior to throw at enemy spellcasters. But although
she is never unarmed, the monk lacks the damage potential
of fighters and barbarians, who can bring heavy weapons to
bear against a foe. Furthermore, the monk must focus her
feat selections on improving her Armor Class because she
loses her best abilities if she wears armor.

If you're playing a monk as your party's lead warrior, the
cleric must assume the role of heavy hitter in melee, Develop-
ing the Power Attack feat path can helpaclericin such a party
dish out more damage than he otherwise could. The party's
arcane spellcasters tend to fall back into a supporting role,
using their spells to augment the team members’ individual
abilities, though they can fire off their deadly area spells
without much worry of damaging you. Experts, who are often
just as mobile as you are, can work with you to flank enemies
and eliminate them quickly and efficiently.

Ranger: The ranger is a great character choice for nearly
any adventuring party. Armed with spells, a few bonus fears,

  

 

 

  

 
