Warrior types

 

and great class features, the ranger can also work to improve
his combat prowess against specific types of foes. However,
he lacks the versatility of the standard fighter because he
must focus ona single combat style. If you follow the archery
combat path, the party's expert should support the cleric's
necessarily broader role as a melee combatant. Conversely, if
you follow the two-weapon path, both the arcane spellcaster

and the expert need to build up their ranged arsenals.

 

In either case, the divine spellcaster must also support
and ma

sle for cure spells

the ranger with buff spells (such as cat’s grac

 

gic vest:

 

  

ment) and keep plenty of spell slots availa
to keep him on his feet. If possible, the arcane spellcaster in
your party should summon additional monsters to distract
enemies and spread damage around

Don't neglect your ranger's Armor Class in your feat selec
tion. When it's time to choose favored enemies, select the
foes that your party is most likely to encounter and avoid the
esoteric and unusual monsters that other team members can
handle more efficiently

Paladin: This virtuous knight not only makes a great
spokesperson for the party, but she also serves as a support
system for the cleric. The healing that the paladin can provide
through her lay on hands ability leaves the cleric with more
prepared spells that need not be converted to cure spells
Though a paladin isn't quite the equivalent of a fighter in terms
of combat prowess, she more than makes up for this lack with

   

turning abilities, a special mount, and the ability to smite evil
Like the barbarian, though, the paladin is starved for feats
so she can focus on only one or two feat paths. Most paladins

 

 

in combat

choose to develop the Mounted Combat path, which tends to
reduce their effectiveness in certain common environments
such as dungeons

When you introduce a palad

 

nto an adventuring party,
the rest of the characters have to respect her code of conduct
and alignment restrictions. The cleric and the rogue must
play larger roles in combat—the former supplementing the
paladin in melee and the latter offering ranged support. Also,
the wizard should emphasize comba

 

spells to make up for
the lack of a reliable ranged attacker

Other Classes: Complete Warrior offers three new warrior
standard classes: the hexblade, the samurai, and the swash
buckler. All three of these are good choices, but each brings
its own advanta

 

sand disadvantages to

 

group,

The hexblade gains a spell progression starting at 4th level
and he has a number of interesting abilities with which he
can disrupt his opponents. However, he lacks the fighter's
bonus feats, so he pretty much has to specialize in one
combat technique

The samurai is similar to the ranger in that his class features
emphasize a particular style of fighting—a two-weapon style,
in this c:

 

e. But the samurai makes a poor ranged attacker
and his class fearures focus on fear effects, which are useful
only against susceptible opponents.

The swashbuckler makes a great fighting companion for
the rogue, but her Armor Class is low compared to most
fighting characters, so she mu

  

use feats or other assets
to compensate for it. Thus, she’s unlikely to be the party's
principal damage-dealer.

dioud

9ATLAVHD

 
