Experts
An expert is a character who brings a broad skill selection
and useful combat abilities to the table. The rogue is perhaps
the best example of this category. Experts are invaluable
members of any group because they can filla variety of roles,
from backup spelleaster to extra warrior.

When playing an expert, you depend heavily on yourskills
and class features. You have more skill points than any other
character in the group, and you can generally get into and
out of scrapes with a good skill check result.

Rogue: The rogue class offers three key advantages: sneak
attacks, an excellent selection of class skills, and trapfinding.
The sneak attack ability allows the rogue to support the
party's key warrior by taking advantage of flanking oppor
tunities and surprise attacks. The rogue’s skill in breaking
and entering allow the party to overcome obstacles such as
locked doors and deadly traps. In addition, the rogue often
scouts ahead to gain information about enemies. While the
ranger, who sometimes serves as a rogue substitute, has a
broad selection of skills and plenty of skill points to back
them up, his talents make him more useful in wilderness
environments than in dungeons, and he can't help his party
bypass traps. On the other hand, he is more of a warrior than
the rogue is, so he can hold his own next to fighters, paladins,
and barbarians.

Asa rogue, you are expected to fill in where needed. Don't
ignore the Use Magic Device skill; it allows you to use a wand
of cure light wounds to get the cleric back on his feet should
he become disabled. Likewise, your ability to use a wand of
magic missile, or even read a scroll, can make all the difference
in combat. And perhaps most important, your sneak attack
ability can help the party's main warrior bring down the
tough opponents.

Bard: Heralded as the best fifth character in any adventur-
ing party, the bard is the most often overlooked expert. The
bard's best feature is his adaptability—he is a warrior, an
expert, an arcane spellcaster, and a divine spellcaster rolled
into one. Like the rogue, he has plenty of skill points and
a wide selection of class skills. But while the rogue’s class
skills focus on scouting, sneaking, and subterfuge, the bard's
allow him to play a strong role in supporting the other
party members,

When you play a bard, you don't have the rogue's trapfind-
ing ability, so the cleric must cover this aspect of the expert
with his find traps spell—though you can help if you have
the inspire competence ability. Likewise, you can use inspire
greatness and inspire heroics to improve a warrior's combat
abilities at higher levels. Furthermore, since you have access
to spells, you can supplement both arcane and divine spell-
casters, expanding the party's ability to circumvent minor
threats and letting the more potent spellcasters reserve their
spell slots for handling the really deadly enemies.

Other Classes: Complete Adventurer presents three new
expert standard classes: the ninja, the scout, and the spell-
thief. All three have the trapfinding ability, plus special
abilities such as sudden strike (which is similar to sneak
attack) and great skill selections. Thus, playing one of these
classes is just as good as having a rogue in the party.

  

 

 

 

Arcane Spellcasters
Wizards, sorcerers, and their ilk develop powerful spells in
lieu of combat abilities. In fact, since they have the smallest
Hit Die type of all the classes (d4 in most cases), they are more
of a liability in melee than an asset. However, they make up
for their poor combat skills with access to some of the most
potent spells in the game.

Asan arcane spellcaster, you must circumvent the gravest
threats to the party. You can lob fireballs and lightning bolts at
the party's opponents, conjure up terrible servants, and even
transport your allies past obstructions and obstacles. Playing
the party's arcane spellcaster isa big responsibility, but itcan
be both memorable and highly rewarding as well.

Wizard: The wizard’s strength lies in the depth of her
knowledge and her ability to cast a variety of different spells.
In addition, she can modify those spells with metamagic
feats and use them to create magic items that benefit not only
herself but also the rest of the party.

Deciding which spells to prepare on a given day, however,
requires a bit of strategy. A poorly prepared wizard all too
often becomes meat for monsters. For instance, a Sth-level
wizard who prepares lightning boll before facing a creature
thatis immune to electricity now might lack access to a spell
that could have overcome the opponent.

When you play an arcane spellcaster, resist the urge to pre-
pare all offensive spells. A charm person spell can accomplish
a lot more than a magic missile at times, and you shouldn't
underestimate its value. By preparing a good mix of spells,
you can be useful in situations ranging from diplomacy to
divination to war.

Sorcerer: The sorcerer makes an excellent substitute for
the wizard in an adventuring party, Although the number of
different spells he can access is relatively small, he outstrips
a wizard of equivalent level in the number of spells he can
cast per day. If he chooses to specialize in offensive spells, he
can be a formidable combat caster. However, most sorcerers
can do little to supply their companions with magic items,
and they typically don’t have the same range of skills as their
more learned counterparts. Worse still, using metamagic feats
slows the sorcerer’s casting time, turning this key spellcasting
tool into a potential liability.

Ifyour sorcerer is the party's key arcane spellcaster, it’s best to
focus on total offense. Let the cleric erect the magical defenses
and the warrior block the hits. Your task is to bombard your
enemies with a barrage of damaging spells. Make sure you learn
spells of every energy type and take the Spell Penetration
feat early to help you overcome spell resistance.

Other Classes: Complete Arcane presents three new arcane
spellcasting classes: the warlock, the wu-jen, and the war-
mage. Each of these classes is a variation on the core arcane
theme—one restricts the spell selection, another changes
the fundamental methods of casting, and the third exchanges
certain spellcasting elements for others, The warlock is a
great alternative to the combat-oriented sorcerer, and he can
offer ranged combat potential in a party with warriors who
specialize in melee. On the other hand, if the group's warrior
is an effective ranged combatant, the warmage can help the
cleric and rogue cover the group's melee needs.

  

 

 

 

S
=
r
s
5
z
%

 
