  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
      

Divine Spellcasters

The divine spellcaster is the heart and soul of every adventur-
ing party. Armed with good combat prowess, a broad range
of buff spells, power over undead, and the always-in-demand
cure spells, the cleric fills vital role. In fact, a party without
acleric has a much harder time surviving than one that has
clerical support from the start

When youchoosea divine spellcaster, you play an important
support role in your party. You're the one everyone else relies on
tosupply healing spells, remove afflictionssuch as diseases and
curses, and restore lost ability points, You can also bring extra
support to the team with your summon monster, summon nature's
ally, or planarally spells. The more combatants you have on your
side, the less damage your fellow characters have to take

Cleric: The cleric is undoubtedly among the most effective
characters in the game. With the right spells, he can rival even
warriors in combat, and no character is more effective against
undead. When you add unique domain abilities and the abil
ity to heal others spontaneously, the cleric easily becomes
one of the most important characters in the party,

Even so, playing a cleric can sometimes seem like a chore.
Because your companions look to you to fix all their troubles,
you might feel more like the party first-aid kit than a full-
fledged member of the group. While it's true that no party
would last long without your cures, you're far more than a
simple healing factory. Your ability to fight and cast potent
spells coupled with your access to abilities that no other char-
acter has ensure that you remain among the more powerful
characters in the game.

Druid: The druid is a viable substitute for the cleric
While the druid lacks spontaneous healing ability, she can
spontaneously summon creatures instead. Add the ability to
change shape and a potent spell list that retains most of the
cure spells, and the druid becomes an important addition to
any adventuring party.

If youre playing a druid, you're more than likely the only
character in the party with any ability to cast cure spells
unless your group also includes bard ora higher-level paladin.
So it pays to invest in disposable magic items such as wands
ofcure light wounds or wands of cure moderate wounds to free up
your spell slots for more interesting spells. Don't be afraid to
experiment with your spell selection; in a wors
you can lose a prepared spell to cast a summon natu
of the same level.

Other Classes: Complete Divine offers three additional
divine spellcasting classes: the favored soul, the shugenja,and
the spirit shaman. Each brings a specialized set of abilities
to the table, as well as a few disadvantages. The favored soul
offers better combat potential, the shugenja a broader access
to different kinds of spells, and the spirit shaman a set of
unique abilities effective against specific kinds of creatures
All three however, cast spells like a sorcerer, so none has the
same spell versatility as the cleric

  

 

 

‘ase scenario,

ally spell

 

    

Missing Elements

Sometimes no one in the group wants to play a particular
role, or the players don't want to be constrained by the four
classic character roles. And some groups have only two or

    
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
 

three players—none of whom might be interested in playing
multiple characters.

While the absence of any one of the four classic character
roles makes adventuring more difficult, ir does not make it
impossible. Individual characters can make extensive use
of the multiclassing rules, invest in the Leadership feat to
pick up cohorts, or even play two or more characters if the
DM allows it. But when a party is just plain missing a crucial
element, you can take a few specific actions to minimize the
impact of that shortfall

Missing Warrior: For most groups, the very idea of not
having a fronrline fighter is appalling. Yet this role is in some
ways the most disposable. Clerics and druids are competent
warriors in their own right, and with the right set of buff
spells (such as bul strength, magic weapon, and the like), they
can be the equals of nearly any warrior-type character.

If your group lacks a warrior, consideradding a druid, whose
wild shape ability and animal companion can make up for the
missing component. A bard can also be an excellent choice,
since the additional healing he can supply lets the cleric devote
his spells to augmenting his own fighting abilities. The scout
class from Complete Adventurer is another great choice. With
ranger Hit Dice and the sudden strike ability, the scout not
only has combat abilities that rival those of warriors, but she
can also support the rogue as a secondary trap finder.

Ideal Four-Character Group: Cleric, druid, rogue, and sorcerer.

Ideal Three-Character Group: Cleric, rogue, and sorcerer.

Missing Expert: Not having an expert can make certain
environments tricky—if not downright deadly. The lack of a
character who can identify and disable traps means the party
is at risk of springing nearly every trap in the dungeon.

When a party finds itselfin this situation, it’s up to the cleric
tocompensate, The Trickery domain offers some stealth skills
and spells, and the find traps spell—though its use depletes
the cleric’s available spell slots—can make up for the missing
rogue ability. A group thar's missing a rogue can also consider
filling the warrior’s role with the paladin, since that class can
help the cleric compensate for his expanded role. A ranger is
also a good choice because he offers the party scouting abilities
that would otherwise be lacking.

Ideal Four-Character Group: Cleric, paladin, ranger, and
wizard.

Ideal Three-Character Group: Cleric, ranger, and wizard,

Missing Arcane Spellcaster: The lack of an arcane
spellcaster can spell disaster for a party. Wizards and sorcer-
ers provide the means to eliminate large numbers of foes,
clearing the way for the principal warrior to hammer away
at the key opponent. The arcane spellcaster also significantly
improves a party's chances of overcoming particularly nasty
opponents, such as dragons and magical beasts.

While having an arcane spellcaster is certainly preferable, a
party can compensate for the lack ofone. The best way is for the
expert to keep pumping skill points into the Use Magic Device
skill so that she can use items to produce the necessary magi-
cal effects, A bard, who can provide a small amount of arcane
magic, is also extremely useful, as is an extra cleric, who can at
least provide some damage-dealing divine magic, The hexblade,
from Complete Warrior, makes a good backup as well.

  

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
