Ideal Four-Character Group: Bard, cleric, fighter, and rogue.
Ideal Three-Character Group: Bard, cleric, and fighter.
Missing Divine Spellcaster: The divine spellcaster is the
element most commonly missing from a party. Many players
prefer to go for the spotlight with a fighter or wizard (or the
equivalent) rather than playing what they see as a supporting
character. But the lack ofa divine spellcaster results in a consid-
erable drain on party resources, Parties that lack this element
soon discover that they must invest in multiple wands of cure
light wounds just to compensate for the healing a cleric could
have provided—fifty charges don't last as long as one might
think. This healing deficit plus the loss of turning capabil-
ity and the lack of strong divination spells (such as augury
and divination) makes operating without a divine spellcaster
quite expensive and more than alittle dangerous. Still, a party
that’s missing this element can compensate with the bard and
paladin classes, both of which have some healing abilities.
The party rogue should maximize her ranks in Use Magic
Device so that she can activate divine scrolls and wands.
Ideal Four-Character Group: Bard, paladin, rogue, and wizard.
Ideal Three-Character Group: Paladin, rogue, and wizard.

The Fifth Character

Groups with more than four players offer greater flexibility
in class choices. The party doesn't suffer from having two
wizards or two fighters, but the roles of the duplicate charac
ters overlap, reducing the enjoyment for the two players who
must share the spotlight. The best way to prevent role overlap
is for players to branch out into different aspects of the same
roles, Instead of two fighters, for example, consider a ranger
ora barbarian for the second warrior. The ranger can provide
the ranged attacks (assuming he has selected the archery
combat style), while the barbarian serves as the melee menace.
Likewise, instead of two wizards, try a wizard coupled with
a bard or sorcerer. The wizard retains a diverse selection of
spells, while the other arcane spellcaster helps to fill gaps in
the party caused by casualties. The following sections offer
recommendations for character choices in larger parties.

Two Warriors: Part of what makes the fighter a great class
choice is his ability to develop several different combat tech-
niques. When the party has the luxury of an extra warrior, both
players have more flexibility, since they can take advantage of
alternative techniques without diminishing the overall effective-
ness of the party. For instance, a monk and a barbarian, though
opposite in outlook, make a great team, They both move faster
than normal for their races, so they can close with the enemy and
reduce the need for warriors who specialize in ranged attacks.
Likewise, barbarian can handle melee combat with ease, while
the second warrior, preferably a fighter or a ranger, can supply
covering fire with a bow or crossbow, eliminating additional
targets that are closing in on the barbarian. Substituting a
paladin for a barbarian can give the same results, especially
ina campaign that features undead, demons, or some equally
evil nemesis as the dominant monster type.

‘Two Experts: At first glance, two rogues in a party looks
like a winning combination, and in many waysit is. Multiple
rogues can work together to flank enemiesand dish out buckets
of sneak attack damage. If they have ranks in Tumble, they can

weave through their enemies and select the best targets for their
attacks, while also supporting the party's primary warrior.

On the other hand, two rogues also overlap a great deal. The
party really doesn't need more than one characterto find traps,
pick locks, and translate musty inscriptions on the wall. If the
group does have a second translator, it's typically the wizard.

To prevent this kind of overlap, one of the players should
consider playing a bard, Easily the most versatile kind of
character, the bard offers a mix of abilities from all classes,
inchiding combat prowess, solid saving throws, and spellcast-
ing ability. Better still, bardic music helps everyone, providing
bonuses on certain tasks or in the heat of combat.

Other experts, such as the ninja and the scout, can help the
Togue concentrate on developing the right skills and abilities
to eliminate traps. Because these other characters are more
combat-oriented, they excel at maneuvering through the
battlefield to help the rogue flank enemies for sneak attacks,
as well as to support the other warriors.

‘Two Arcane Spellcasters: Two wizards in the same party
can effectively double the number of spells they ordinarily
would have by sharing their spellbooks. And in heated combat,
two fireballs from allied wizards are always better than one.

However, a better tactic for individualizing party roles is
for one player to select a sorcerer. If that character focuses
on combat spells, the wizard can take charge of the more
utilitarian spells.

Multiple arcane spellcasters can help the party in other
ways as well. If the party's primary warrior is nota fighter, a
wariage can provide some great offensive spells, as well as
some combat ability to shore up any shortcomings. A bard
is also a great choice, since an extra character with access to
healing spells is never bad.

‘Two Divine Spellcasters: Clerics are probably the best of
all the classes to duplicate in a party. Sharing the burden of
keeping the warrior on his feet gives each cleric more freedom
to cast other spells. Multiple clerics can provide buff spells,
such as bull's strength and bear's endurance, to boost the front line,
as well as eagle's splendor to help the sorcerer cast more powerful
combat spells. Magic vestment, magic weapon, aid, bless, and others
used in combination can give the whole party a boost. If the
primary cleric can do more than just function as the party's
medic, his player is likely to enjoy the session more.

Adruid is also a good addition to an adventuring party asa
second divine caster. The druid’s special abilities (wild shape
and spontaneous casting of summon nature's ally) can add
considerable power to the group. Furthermore, the druid hasa
useful selection of wilderness survival spells, and heranimal
companion can help other characters flank enemies.

Psionics: If your campaign includes psionics, the classes
presented in Expanded Psionics Handbook offer the chance to play
a unique and exotic character. A psychic warrior or soulknife
works well as a secondary warrior, and psions and wilders are
good replacements for arcane spellcasters,

BEING A TEAM PLAYER

Developing a shared background and carefully planning the
group's character choices has little effect if the group doesn't
act asa team. The story of one brave, bold hero overcoming

 

    

 
