 
    
   
   
  
 
 
     

adversity is fine fora fantasy novel, but what makes the D&D
game great is the teamwork displayed by a group of such
adventurers, Selfish thoughts and actions are the best way
for your party to meet a terrible end. If your rogue sneaks
off to claim the choicest bits of treasure before the rest of
the group can arrive, the fighter might not have the right
toal to defe

 

tthe next monster, and another ally might not
have the right item to save your hide. And you are

 

tdoing
your companions any favors by pushing ahead to fight the

next monster in the next room, because if you die, their
chances for survival diminish considerably. Furthermo
a cleric who hoards his cure spells until someone is at

 

death's door encourages his companions not to take risks
and not to perform heroic acts, thereby reducing the fun
for everyone involved

Though roleplaying games technically do not have winners
or losers, adventuring parties do—ar
wins by ach

 

tina sense. You!

 

am
ing its objectives. If your party saves the town
orclears the dungeon, all its members win. Therefore, in the
most important sense, you win by working together

  

 

Thinking as a Group
All encounter levels (Eis) are approximations beved ove group
of four reasonably healthy characters of the appropriate level
Thus, an EL 4 encounter is appropriate for a group of four
4th-level characters. If one or two of those characters dies,

   

the encounter becomes more difficult. Thus, acting without

regard for your companions is a surefire way to force everyone
to make a new character and start over. So when working in a
group, keep the following three points in mind

First, your character isan integral

 

partof the group, whether
or not that fact is apparent to you. Every class and race provides
4 set of options and abilities th

an encounter. And even if yo

   

can help a party overcome
don't know what to do in a

 

given round, you can always use the aid another action to

 

help someone else

Second, th

 

e part

 

isalways more important than the individual
character. Always be aware of your comrades’ positions and their
ability to handle a particular threat. Ifthe wizard is desperately
battling five goblins, and you're playing the fighter, youd better
get over there and save the spellcaster's skin. Likewise, if you're
playing the cleric, your primary job is to help the warriors stay
on their feet, though you can a

   

 

so lend combat or spell support
as necessary. So if the heavy hitter is disabled, cure him as fast as
possible so he can continue to do his job. By staying cognizant
of the battlefield and your fellow party members, you should be
able to handle just about anything the DM throws at you
Third, keep in mind that characters who hate each other
don't ge

 

rally work together for long, If your group includes
a paladin, it's probably not 2 good idea to play a chaotic evil
half-orc necromancer.

 

ch contrasts, while they provide
excellent opportunities for roleplaying, are never conducive
