toa good gaming experience, Playing a treacherous character
diminishes or destroys the trust that is vital to party cohesive-
ness, and when you brave the depths of the underground, you
want your friends to watch your back

Team Roles

Well-defined party roles can help keep your group focused
on teamwork. Each role represents a responsibility fora char-
acter, and the different roles ensure that each player has an
opportunity to shine and gets a voice in the decision-making
processes. Furthermore, team roles keep disagreements toa
minimum and focus attention on the fun parts of gaming.
‘The following sections provide some example roles other
than the iconic ones discussed above.

Cartographer/Historian: The party cartographer is
responsible for mapping, taking notes about certain rooms,
and recording puzzles, riddles, and campaign notes, Though
ideally this function should be a shared responsibility, some
players are better ar it than others. Ifanother player shoulders
the burden of keeping notes, pitch in whenever you can by
helping to recall certain details.

Face: Your group should settle on one person in the group
to be the default “front man.” When your party needs a good
negotiator to slip past some guards or to talk a dragon into
letting everyone live, it falls to this character to do the con
vincing. So don'tfeel overshadowed when the “face” character
speaks up; he's just doing his part. After all, a character who's
good at talking is not always good at fighting.

General; A born strategist can look at the battle map, pick
out the best paths for movement to avoid attacks of opportunity,
place spells where they are most effective, and decide where
everyone should be located to do well in combat situations. Such
a player is an asset to the group because she can offer advice
about where to attack, point out advantageous environmental
conditions, and develop great strategies for the party. A general
can also help other players make good combat decisions and
show them how to maximize their resources in a fight

Few people enjoy being bossed around, and a demanding
player—even a well-intentioned one—can ruin the fun
for everyone. Thus, the general must be receptive to others’
opinions and sensitive to their feelings.

Judge: Inevitably, characters (and their players) come into
conflict during the game. The dispute might be about who
gets a certain piece of treasure, or it might be a disagreement
over a proposed course of action. When such a conflict occurs,
it's wise to put a time limit on the ensuing debate so that it
cannot derail the game session. Furthermore, a disinterested
character (or player) should listen toall sides of the argument
and make a binding decision. This “judge” role can fall to dif
ferent characters depending on who is involved in the debate,
but someone who can make a quick decision and resolve the
argument is invaluable for keeping the game on track,

Scout: Forewarned is forearmed, so just about every party
recognizes the need for a scout. Ideally, the scout should be
able to move forward quietly, inspect the scene ahead, and
report back quickly to his comrades. A character with high
Hide and Move Silently modifiers fits this role perfectly, so
it often falls to the rogue

 

 

   

 

The party scout can quickly overshadow the rest of the
group if too much of the action falls on his shoulders. Thus,
scouts should reserve their stealthy reconnaissance for when
it's necessary. If the scout insists on inspecting every room,
the game can quickly become all about him, with the rest of
the characters as supporting cast.

Security: The character filling this party role isin charge
of securing the area before the PCs enter a room or camp
for the night. She might do a quick search for traps, make
Listen checks, or examine the floor for recent tracks, She also
determines the order of watches and is ultimately responsible
for keeping the party safe from ambushes, If the security
person feels that a particular location or action is too risky,
the rest of the party should find an alternative solution.

Task Leader: Certain characters are just better at specific tasks
than others, Thus, the character with the best Listen modifier
should be listening at doors, not the fighter in full plate with
the Wisdom score of 6. By the same token, the character with
the trapfinding ability should be the party's authority on traps.
Identify certain checks the group has to make frequently, and
put the characters with the best modifiers in charge of them.

After a few adventures, the characters in an adventuring
party tend to identify particular routines and tactics that
work well for them. The wizard might select certain spells
to complement the fighter’s tactics, while the cleric and the
rogue figure out where to stand in a fight so that they can
lend support while still allowing the fighter to shield them
from the worst of the enemy attacks, In this manner, the
party can develop concrete teamwork benefits that evolve
from the experience of working together.

WHAT IS A TEAMWORK BENEFIT?

Experienced players understand the value of specific tactics
that depend on teamwork. However, teamwork also provides
a more general benefit. Once characters have trained with
specific comrades for a time, they become attuned to the
nuances of how their companions fight, move, and commu-
nicate. Thus, characters who have spent time working as a
team can derive a benefit simply from having their comrades
nearby, This teamwork benefit can grant an expanded use
of a skill, a bonus on certain checks, or a battlefield action
otherwise unavailable to the team members.

To qualify for a teamwork benefit, PCs must meet two broad
categories of requirements: training time and prerequisites,

First, the characters must jointly practice techniques relevant
to the desired benefit for at least two weeks before acquiring it.
This training period must be repeated whenever a new character
joins the group, so that the newcomer can become accustomed
to the operating procedures of the veteran team members.

Second, some teamwork benefits have prerequisites such
as skill ranks, base attack bonus, or feats. A prerequisite can
take one of two different forms.

Task Leader Prerequisites; These requirements must be met
by at least one character on the team. If the only character who
qualifies leaves the team, the group loses the teamwork benefit

 
