    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 
 
    

until that character returns or is replaced by another who meets
the same prerequisites, Since prerequisites for teamwork benefits
vary widely, the character who assumes the task leader position
might differ depending on the specific benefit,

In addition to the indicated prerequisites, a task leader must
have an Intelligence score of at least 8, (While he need not bea
genius or havea strong personality, he must be at least reason-
ably capable of communicating his thoughts to others.)

‘Team Member Prerequisites: Every character on the team
must meet these requirements. Any new character who joins
the team mustalso meet them, or the team can no longer enjoy
the benefit

For example, the cunning ambush teamwork benefit has a
task leader prerequisite of 8 ranks in both Hide and Listen,
and a team member prerequisite of 1 rank in Hide. So, at
least one character in the group must have 8 or more ranks
in both Hide and Listen, and every other character on the
team must have at least 1 rank in Hide. Thus, when the team
is sneaking around, the task leader directs her less adept
comrades in stealth techniques, covers any extra noise with
environmental sounds, and so on.

A team (see The Team Roster, below) gets one teamwork
benefit for every + Hit Dice the lowest-level member of
the ream has. If that character's level later drops below the
required point (due to energy drain, for example), the team
retains all its current teamwork benefits but can't gain a new
one until that character regains his lost level(s), plus enough
additional levels to qualify for an additional benefir,

Whenever a team gains a new teamwork benefit, italso
has the option to swap out a benefit it previously had for a
new one, as long as it meets the new prerequisites. In effect,
the team can elect to lose one teamwork benefit to gain
two others. Such swaps usually occur when the team roster
has changed in such a way as to render a previously known
teamwork benefit less useful than before.

Unless otherwise specified, each teamwork benefit can be
taken only once. A teamwork benefit applies whenever the
characters on the team can communicate with each other—be
it verbally, through gestures, or by magical means.

THE TEAM ROSTER

‘Teamwork benefits are based on the notion that once charac-
ters have spent time training with their comrades, they can
respond instinctively to subtle changes in body language and
anticipate their teammates’ likely moves. A group of PCs or

 

 

 

 

HANDLE ANIMAL
(NEW TRICK: TEAMWORK)

Use this skill to train an animal as part of a team.

Check: Teaching an animal the teamwork trick requires a
DC 20 Handle Animal check made as part of teamwork train:
ing. This trick allows the animal to be part of a team and thus
benefit from any teamwork benefits enjoyed by that team.
The animal must still meet any team member prerequisites
required to gain the benefit.

 

    
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
     
    
 

NPCs must train together for at least two weeks before the
group can gain any teamwork benefits. The PCs will undoubr-
edly occupy most of the positions on the team, but cohorts,
animal companions, paladin mounts, familiars, and recurring
NPC allies can also be members of a team.

A team must have at least two members and no more than
eight. To join a team, a character must have an Intelligence
score of 3 or higher. A creature with an Intelligence score of 1
or 2can be included ona team only if it learns the teamwork
trick through some character's use of the Handle Animal skill
(see the sidebar). A creature without an Intelligence score can
never be part of a team.

‘To maintain their teamwork benefits, the characters on a team
must train together for at least four one-week periods per year.
These training periods need not be consecutive and can happen
at the same time when the characters are training to earn the new
class features for 2 given level, so in most cases PCs don't have
to spend additional time to keep their teamwork skills sharp,

Any new character added to a team after it has gained
teamwork benefits must train with the other characters on
the team for at least two weeks. During this time, she learns
the team's standard operating procedures and the nuances of
her comrades’ behavior. This training can occur during the
training time required to gain the benefits of a new level.

Acharacter can join an adventuring party without joining
the team that includes the other members of the group. In this
case, the new character doesn't gain any teamwork benefits,
bur neither does her lack of prerequisites count against the
team's qualification for those benefits.

A character can leave a team at her own option, or by
consensus of the other team members. For more teamwork
benefits, see Dungeon Master's Guide Il, pages 190-194.

TEAMWORK BENEFIT

Below is the format for teamwork benefit descriptions.

BENEFIT NAME

Description of what the benefit does or represents.

Training: A brief discussion of the training procedure
required to acquire the benefit. The task leader coordinates
the training.

Task Leader Prerequisite: A base attack bonus, a feat
or feats, a minimum number of ranks in one or more skills,
a class feature, or some other requirement that at least one
character on the team must have for the team to acquire this
benefit. This entry is absent ifa teamwork benefit has no task
leader prerequisire. Ifa benefit has more than one task leader
prerequisite, the same character must meet all of them for
the team to gain thar benefit.

Team Member Prerequisite: Every member of the team
must meet this requirement for the team to acquire the
benefit. This entry is absent if a teamwork benefit has no
team member prerequisite, If a benefit has more than one
team member prerequisite, every character on the team must
meet all of them for the team to gain that benefit.

Benefit: What the teamwork benefit enables the team to do.

 
