Tips: Advice for players and DMs about using this team-
work benefit.

AWARENESS
Your team knows where to look and what to listen for to
anticipate ambushes.

‘Training; To train for this benefit, you and your teammates
must run through scenarios in which half of you set up ambushes
to snare the others. Through constant drilling, your team
learns to listen for specific sounds and look for random visual
clues. By regularly exploring dangerous locales, developing
listening skills, and staying alert for the slightest movements,
your team gradually develops routine for examining an area
to prevent enemies from getting the drop on the group.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Listen 12 ranks and Spot
12 ranks.

Team Member Prerequisite: Listen 2 ranks or Spot
2 ranks.

Benefit: Every member of the team gains a +2 circum-
stance bonus on Listen and Spot checks if any other team
member is within 30 feet

Tips: When moving into an area with poor lighting, or
one that offers plenty of places for opponents to hide, it's
best to spread out to the outer extent of this benefit’s range.
By doing so, your group presents a less attractive target to a
hidden spellcaster. For example, if each character is exactly
30 feet (6 squares) away from the task leader, not everyone
could be caught in a fireball or similar effect.

CAMP ROUTINE
The regular routine your group has established allows you to
set up, watch, and break down camp quickly and efficiently.

‘Training: To developa camp routine, the team must establish
aregular schedule of tasks and responsibilities foreach member.
For example, one character might set up the tents while another
starts the fire anda third prepares the evening meal. Your team
must also set up a routine watch schedule so that everyone
knows who goes on watch when, and for how long.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Survival 8 ranks or Self-
Sufficient.

Team Member Prerequisite: Survival 1 rank.

Benefit: Your team can set up and break camp with an eye
toward defensibiliry and efficiency. The team member on
watch gains a +2 bonus on Spot and Listen checks, and each
sleeping team member gains a +4 bonus on Listen checks to
hear any sounds within 30 feet.

Tips: Be sure to put spellcasters on the first watch or last
watch so thar they can get enough uninterrupted rest to regain
their spells. Your first priority when the party is attacked while
you are on watch is to wake up your allies, so you should carry
asignal whistle, bell, or similar item.

CIRCLE OF BLADES
The members of your team can combine their attacks to slice
through the defenses of a foe they have surrounded.
Training: You and your teammates learn to anticipate each
other's attacks and fighting maneuvers. By correctly timing
your blows, you can strike at a foe's vulnerable points.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Weapon Specialization and
base attack bonus +6.

Team Member Prerequisite: Sneak attack +1d6.

Benefit: Any team member who readies an action to attack
when the task leader does gains a +2 bonus on damage rolls
against the same target.

Tip: The circle of blades teamwork benefit works best
against undead, oozes, and other monsters that have immu-
nity to extra damage from sneak attacks.

CROWDED CHARGE
Because you and your allies know when to step out of each
other's way, you can charge even when allies are blocking
your path.

Training; The members of your team learn to step aside
whenever one of them begins a charge.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Jump 8 ranks.

Team Member Prerequisite: Jump 1 rank.

Benefit: Other team members do not block movement
for the purpose of determining whether a team member can
charge. However, a charging team member must still end her
movement in an unoccupied space.

Tips: This versatile benefit allows the party's rogue or ranger
to scout ahead in a dungeon or other constrained terrain
without worrying about blocking a fighter's or barbarian's
charge. Furthermore, because the benefit also extends to
mounted team members, a paladin can charge on horseback
without worrying about trampling her comrades.

CUNNING AMBUSH

Your team can quickly take advantage of terrain to ambush
opponents.

Training: The training for this benefit involves studying
common environments, running through ambush scenarios,
and devising strategies that take advantage of the terrain, Your
team must spend a few days in the hills, then in the forest,
and then—if possible—in the shifting sands of the desert.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Hide 8 ranks and Listen
8 ranks

Team Member Prerequisite: Hide 1 rank.

Benefit: If the team members allow the task leader to
prepare their hiding positions, he can make a special Hide
check to camouflage them. This check is modified by each
team member's armor check penalty and Dexterity rather
than the task leader's, and the camouflage effect lasts until
the team member moves. Hiding a team member in this
manner requires 10 minutes of work.

Tips: The ambush teamwork benefit is a great way to play
smart. Instead of always going after the monsters on their
own turf, let them come to you. Try luring monsters into your
trap with spells such as dancing lights or major image. Failing
that, buff up the party scout with defensive spells to protect
her while she acts as bait.

CUNNING AMBUSH, IMPROVED
When you are adequately prepared, your team can set a
devastating ambush.
‘Training: Same as for cunning ambush.

 
