and traits of the chosen creature until you learn its every
idiosyncrasy. Finally, the team must stage mock combats
so that each of you can learn to take advantage of the target
creature's weaknesses.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Favored enemy (any one) +4.

Team Member Prerequisite: Survival 1 rank and base
attack bonus +4.

Benefit; Each team member who assumes a flanking posi-
tion with the task leader against his favored enemy gains a
+2 bonus on damage rolls against that creature.

Tips: To make optimum use of this benefit, the task leader
should wear light armor or use spells that improve his speed.

GROUP TRANCE

You and your teammates reduce your susceptibility to sleep
by learning the ways of the elves.

Training: Your team members learn the secrets of elf
trance and can slip into a trance state by establishing a physi-
cal link with the task leader. This trance state allows each
member to gain the benefit of sleep by cleansing her mind
and entering a deep meditative state.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Elf blood (elf or half-elf).

Team Member Prerequisite: Concentration 1 rank.

Benefit: When team members join hands, the task leader
can create a trance link that allows each of them, regardless
of race, to meditate in the same manner as elves do. Every
team member gains the benefit of 8 hours of sleep after just
4 hours of meditation.

Tips: Let all the spellcasters in the group rest while the
warriors stay on guard. If the group's elf trances with half the
team ata time, your party can get by with two well-manned
guard watches per night rather than several shorter shifts.

INDIRECT FIRE

Your team has a forward observer called a spotter, who locates
enemies and reveals their positions.

‘Training: You and your teammates practice aiming at unseen
targets using directions from allies. Eventually, you learn to
fire accurately at targets that have cover based on the body
language and gestures of the spotter.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Precise Shot and base attack
bonus +6.

Team Member Prerequisite: Spor 3 ranks,

Benefit: This benefit denies opponents some of the protec-
tion normally granted by cover or concealment. If the spotter
hasan unobstructed line of sight to the covered or concealed
target, she can, as a move action, use hand gestures, spoken
directions, and body language to alert allies wielding ranged
weapons to the target's position. If the target has cover, it gains
only half the normal cover bonus to Armor Class against
the team's ranged attacks. If the target has concealment, the
attacker rolls the miss chance twice to determine whether
his attack hits. A spotter who can see invisible targets can
use this ability to allow a reroll on the miss chance to strike
an invisible creature,

‘Tips: Team members with darkvision make the best spot-
ters, since they can use their special sight to locate creatures
that are taking advantage of shadowy or dark conditions.

 

 

LIKE A ROCK
Like dwarves, the members of your team are stable on their
feet.

Training: Your team develops resilience against unbalanc-
ing attacks by working closely with a dwarf or some other
sturdy member of the party, When the team stands together,
its members are difficult to dislodge.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Stability (as dwarf racial trait).

Team Member Prerequisite: Balance { rank.

Benefit: The task leader's stability bonus against bull rush
or trip attempts extends to all team members adjacent to her.
This bonus stacks with that provided by stability.

Tips: This benefit requires the team to bunch up, so if the
enemy has a number of area attacks, be sure to beef everyone
up with spells and abilities that grant energy resistance. If
you must spread out, don’t move so far apart that you can't
helpan ally who is knocked prone.

MASSED CHARGE
When your team charges, it smashes into the foe as a single
great, implacable mass.

Training: You and your teammates learn to charge as one.
You line up in a tight formation and time your strides to move
in tight synchronicity.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Balance 5 ranks,

Team Member Prerequisite: Balance 1 rank.

Benefit: The team can make a special charge attack. All
team members move on the same initiative count, and each
must charge and attack the same target. Each team member
gains a bonus on his attack roll after the charge equal to the
number of teammates participating.

Tips: This benefit works best against a single, large oppo-
nent. A smaller opponent presents too narrow a point of
contact for you to maximize this ability.

MISSILE VOLLEY
Your team excels ar firing as a group, unleashing a saturated
wave of arrows and bolts. Each member places her shots so
that the target cannot dodge them all.

Training: Your team practices by taking aim at anumber
of small targets clustered together (representing different
spots on the body of a single enemy), Each of you can learn
to place your shots so as to cover every part of a target with
a single joint volley.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Far Shot and Precise Shot.

Team Member Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot.

Benefit: Every member of the team who readies an action
to fire a missile weapon when the task leader does gains a
bonus on the attack roll equal to the number of team mem-
bers firing. The task leader also qualifies for the bonus, even
though she did not ready an action. All these attacks must
be made against the same target.

Tips: Since everyone except the task leader must ready an
action to fire, the other team members lose their additional
attacks. Thus, the team is trading a high number of attack
rolls fora smaller number of attacks that are more likely to hit.
This benefit works best when a single, skilled archer (the task
leader) uses her teammates’ help to improve her accuracy.

 

S
=
=
8
=
=

 
