 
   
  
   
     
   
    
   
   
   
 

 
  
    
    
  
   
  
  
 

  
  
     

STEADFAST RESOLVE
Your team members can use their camaraderie and shared
experience to shrug off the effect of fear

Training: Through long experience in dealing with
adversity, you and your teammates develop the trust and
support needed to bolster each other's minds when subjected
to magical fear.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Concentration 8 ranks and
Iron Will.

Team Member Prerequisite: Base Will save bonus +2

Benefit: Any team member who must make a saving throw
against a fear spell or effect gains a +2 circumstance bonus
on the save if he can see or hear at least one team member.

Tips: Some fear-based spells affect areas, If you castsuch
a spell on an area that includes both allies and enemies,
your teammates are likely to make the save while the foes
run away.

SUPERIOR TEAM EFFORT

When your team works together on a task—whether it's
battering down a door, talking a nervous innkeeper into
allowing everyone to spend the night, or sneaking past a
guard—everyone on the team does a better than average job
of assisting each other's efforts.

‘Training: Your team focuses on improving a particular
skill. Each team member watches the task leader and learns
a few specific actions that can help her succeed,

Task Leader Prerequisite: 8 ranks in a skill and Skill
Focus for the same skill.

Team Member Prerequisite: { rank in the skill to which
the task leader's Skill Focus feat applies.

Special: This teamwork benefit applies only to checks
made with the skill to which the task leader's Skill Focus
feat applies.

Benefit: Any team member who attempts to aid another
member's check with the relevant skill] must make a DC
check to succeed rather than a DC 10 check.

TEAM MELEE TACTICS

Because your group fights as an effective ream in melee, its
members can use the aid another action with greater than
normal efficiency.

Training: Your team studies each member's tactics, fight-
ing style, and tendencies. These hours of facused observation
allow each member to understand how best to help the rest
of the team

Task Leader Prerequisite: Combat Expertise and
Dodge

Team Member Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +6.

Benefit: Whenever a team member uses the aid another
action to grant another member a bonus on attack rolls, chat
bonus increases by 1

Tips: The aid another action allows an ally to strike with
superior accuracy at the expense of the aiding character's own
artacks. Thus, the ally who receives the assistance should be the
best qualified team member to take down the foe—whether
by virtue of damage reduction, high AC, or the ability to use
Power Attack for extra damage.

 

 

  

 
 

  

 

 

 

 

    

TEAM RUSH

Your team trayels faster than normal as a group. The efforts
and assistance of the faster characters allow the slower ones
to keep up.

Training: Your team must march for a week as a group,
traveling across roads, dells, forests, and mountain passes. By
so doing, each team member learns how best to help everyone
move together,

Task Leader Prerequisite: Survival 8 ranks and Endurance.

Team Member Prerequisite: Survival 1 rank.

Benefit: When the entire team is traveling overland on
foot, each team member moves at the task leader's speed. This
benefit does not extend to combat and similar short-term
movement situations, or to mounted characters.

Tips: A barbarian is the best task leader for this teamwork
benefit. Acthe cost of a prerequisite feat, he allows his allies to
travel much mote quickly across the countryside. In campaigns
that feature frequent wilderness or underground travel, the
time saved might prove to be a major benefit.

TEAM SHIELD MANEUVER

When your team fights as a group, its members can close
ranks to protect a badly injured ally.

Training: Your group learns to react quickly when an ally
falls, You drill in pushing aside a wounded team member before
he tumbles to the ground and moving him out of harm's way.

Task Leader Prerequisite: Shield Specialization (see
page $2).

Team Member Prerequisite: Shield Proficiency.

Benefit: When a team member's hit points drop to -1 or
lower, any teammate adjacent to him who carries shield can
use an immediate action to push him out of harm's way. The
injured team member moves 10 feet before falling prone.

Tip: This tactic works best if one of the group's second-
line characters has a potion or wand ready to heal the fallen
character. In this case, even a character who isn't a member
of the team can play a valuable role in making the most of
this benefir,

WALL OF STEEL

By closing ranks and locking shields together, you and your
teammates form an impenetrable barrier to shield a more
vulnerable team member from enemies.

Training: Your group stands in a tight formation and locks
shields while a hired mercenary or assistant pelts everyone
with blunt arrows, Each bruising shot reminds you to improve
your form and teamwork,

Task Leader Prerequisite: Tower Shield Proficiency and
base attack bonus +8.

Team Member Prerequisite: Shield Proficiency and base
attack bonus +2.

Benefit: As a swift action, any member of the team can
lose his shield bonus to AC and grant it to a single adjacent
team member instead. This bonus stacks with the recipient's
existing shield bonus, if any.

Tip: Any arcane spellcasters who are frequently exposed
to missile fire might want to take the Shield Proficiency feat
to gain this teamwork benefit

 

 

 

 

 
