  

rom the Knights of the Round Table to the Circle
f of Eight, from the Vestal Virgins to the Knights
Templar, fantasy, myth, and medieval romance

have always been filled with affiliations. Where would

Robin Hood be without his band of Merry Men? For

that matter, what challenge would the Sheriff of Notting
ham present without his tax men and the support of the
usurper K

the Felle

An iation can be large or small. Its-armies could
thunder like the wrath of a just god

 

 

4g John? Could Frodo have survived without
ship?

 

 

 

cross continents and

  

planes to change the face of the multiverse. Itcould quietly
toil in an outlying village keeping the children asleep at
night while a vampire is bound safely in the secret cellar
under Old Man Hart's feed barn. An affiliation might be
centuries old, orit might have begun only last fall with t
discovery of a dryad’s severed arm in the alley behind the
tavern. An affiliation might be good or evil. It could solicit
funds to build mithral-domed temples to Heironeous where
crusading clergy heal the sick and rest after patrolling the
night trade roads. It could subtly undermine the faith of
L, the paladin king, inspiring him to kill his wife in a jealous
rage and rise again as a blackguard to bring a dark age to
the kingdom.
i An affiliation can be almost any group of people, limited
only by theirimagination and their ability to form common
goals, An ancient cabal of liches, the strict ecclesiastical Wee

 

 

 

 

 
  
   
   
  
   
    
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  

Jasian hierarchy, the king’s bodyguards, the thieves’ guild,
theoldapothecary and the three daughters that help to run
hisshop—all these and more are affiliations.

BROADENING

 

NdAdS adLdVHD

Affiliations add another level to the D&D experience.
They pull the focus back a step, broadening it from the
adventure—loot—sell cycle that makes up some player
characters’ activities. With affiliations, the community
comes to the fore. Conspitaciesy kingmaking, war,
piracy, famine, revolution, business, plague, or the
founding of an empire take center stage fora time,
When the tarrasque appears, an entire kingdom
mobilizes (while the neighboring kingdom prom-
ises aid but sends assassins, hoping to advance on a
weakened foe after planting season). When a new
prophet preaches in the West and gathers followers,
repercussions ripple through churches farand wide,
tithes decrease, and the old rites are threatened
When kingdoms clash and food is scarce, when
churches excommunicate the best among them and
beatify the worst, when comets blaze forth the deaths
of princes and revolution grips the land ina paroxysm
of metamorphosis—that is when affiliations come to
the fore to play put their grand drama,
