   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
   
  

  
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
   

  
  
       

This is nor to disparage an individual's focus. Indeed,
affiliations highlight individuals in the same way thar a
background serves to define the figure of 9 portrait. You
need not be interested in world-spanning politics to find
value in affiliations. Has your character ever recovered the
poison sack from a monstrous scorpion, or a kuo-toa's idol
of Blibdoolpoolp, or yet another masterwork sword from a
bandit chief? Affiliations give you a ready place to liquidate
such treasures, Has your character ever been drained by a
shadow, ridden by a night hag, or victimized by an ethereal
filcher? Hire an affiliation member to restore your strength,
exorcise your demons, or track down the planar pickpocket
while you concentrate on your main quest. Advancing in
your affiliation can be almost as important to your character's
development as attaining new levels.

Affiliations also allow your character to do things that she
otherwise would not be able to do. Ever wanted to open your
own tavern? Start your own smithy or weapon shop? Preach
toa congregation of thousands? Clear Stirge Ridge, raise 2
curtain wall and a donjon, and assume the responsibility of
nobility? Affiliations allow you to do this and more.

THE TWO CATEGORIES
OF AFFILIATIONS

Like-minded individuals might gather in an affiliation for
any number of reasons, bur at the fundamental level there are
two basic categories of affiliations: social and racial.

Social Affiliations
A social affiliation is formed when individuals with acommon
interest come together to promote or protect that cause. It's
that common interest, rather than any physical or professional
similarity (such as race or class), that binds the members.
The most energetic or accomplished people among the
membership have the best chance of rising toa high rank
within the group. Conversely, members who fail to advance
the cause can see their status drop drastically—sometimes
so drastically that they are forced to leave the affiliation.

 

Racial Affiliations
As the name implies, a racial affiliation is only open to
individuals of the race in question. It's conceivable that, in
the context of a given campaign, a human might perform an
amazing deed that causes a group of dwarves to offer him a
place in their affiliation, but such occurrences should be
exceedingly rare.

Racial affiliations differ from social affiliations ina number
of ways, It’s usually easier for 2 member of # racial affiliation
to maintain his status even if he fails in an endeavor, because
racial affiliations don't typically penalize their members
in such cases. Also, members of racial affiliations usually
gain some tangible (that is, game-related) benefit from their
membership at a lower level of status than is the case in
social affiliations.

WHY JOIN AN AFFILIATION?

Affiliations can be viewed as another type of treasure. The
coffer of rubies might have fallen into the acid swamp and

 

 

   

melted, but the Brotherhood of Bahamut holds you in high
esteem for slaying the young black dragon. Your standing
in the Brotherhood goes up, and next time, instead of
tithing a church to grow back your shield arm or empty-
ing your gem pouch to book passage on a shady captain's
barkentine, the Brothers will cast regenerate or wind walk
for you, free of charge. In this way, an affiliation serves you,
the same way that your sword, your spellbook, and your
gold benefit you.

You can also consider affiliations as an additional class
feature, The Skill Focus (Gather Information) feat provides
a bonus on Gather Information checks, but so too does suf-
ficient status in an affiliation of thieves. Join an affiliation of
sages to gain bonuses on Knowledge checks. As you increase
in status, you gain more affiliation benefits and greater
personal power (as well as face greater risks and enemies),

Your affiliation brings rich potential to role-playing. The
group can create many opportunities, including adding foils
for your PC, rivals vying for your rank, and steadfast allies
that can provide aid or request it of you. Affiliations also
help drive your character's motivations; when considering,
your character's background, you should understand how
his affiliations fit in.

From the Dungeon Master's point of view, affiliations can
be used to spur adventures, to lend the world verisimilitude,
to introduce NPCs, to act as treasure and reward, and even
to explain the occasional deus ex machina (even the best cam-
paigns can benefit from such a device from time to time!).
You should work with your DM to determine what affiliations
are available to your character. Perhaps your Dungeon Master
will allow you to creare your own affiliation and join it (or
found it). You should also discuss possible NPC and enemy
affiliations in the campaign. Affiliations with goals inimi-
cal to your own can serve as challenges thar highlight your
character and his allies—the Sun Fane of Pelor is opposed
to the Reviled of Laogzed, while the King’s Navy scours the

seas through storm and swell to harry the Thunder Sail Argosy
pirate fleer.

Also, while the affairs of some affiliations might be fixed
in the campaign world firmament, unchanging outside of
DM fiat, others can be more dynamic. Evolving affiliations
add another dimension to your game. Using the materials
presented later in this chapter, you and your DM can make
your affiliations change as the world does, even in response
to your character's actions.

No matter how you interact with affiliations, keep in mind
that the goal is to have fun. Whether your thieves guild is
a static fixture whose furure is unquestionably secure, or
whether it is a ragtag band of merry companions constantly
on the run from the city watch and in danger of extermina-
tion or gaol, you should enjoy affiliations as you wish.

MEMBERSHIP HAS ITS PRIVILEGES

You have a separate affiliation score for each affiliation, but
need only track those importantto you. Your affiliation score
defines your status in that group. Rising in status can earn
benefits such as an offer of membership, a monthly flow of
gold and emeralds, or research time at a wizard college.

 

 

 

 

  
