 

 

tion might include information about

      

   

     

    

  

        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

        

You can't get ahead in an affiliation without devoti anking
f your character's time and effort to the cause. You members and how the group feels about members joining or
might have to bring treasure to dragons, behead rival anks, as well as facts about the group's significar
chief reak your halfling comrades out of jail, ot rallies. If an affiliation has a secret that relates to
perform any number of other types of activities. Your affil s basic nature or how it operates, that informatior
iation will be willing |
to meet you ha n affiliation’s features come into play when you
bur you've help sin it or advance in it. Still others can be used to affect your

  

the group our if you ampaign world, The following features are
common to all affiliations

Type

one of the following ten types

druid

want the rewards.
Multiple Affiliations

 

An affiliation can be of

You can be associated with

   

 

multiple af business, cabal, colle

 

ations at one

time. However, each sub circle, fightin

 

g company, govern:

  

sequent affiliation is harder ment, spy ring, temple, thieves

 

filiation’s

   

 

 

 

to maintain, The first affiliation guild, or tribe. An af
that you have (your primary affli- type limits the kinds of ex
tion) imposes a 10 penalty on all ecutive powers wielded by

other affiliation scores. Subsequent its leaders, and whether

hting,
In

affiliations oppose an additional —s t is better at

 

penalty to each affiliation that you

 

spying, or negotiatic
the exam:

   

gain afterward words, yo ple affiliation de-

   

scriptions that fol
racial affiliation is identi-

jon score with no

 

penalty, a second at—10, a third

at—15, a fourth at—20, and so fied by the word “racial” in

 

on, High-leve acters are parentheses after its type. All

usually able to maintain one other example affiliations
are social

Scale: An aff

or two affiliations of note but

only minor associations with

  

iation’s
scale is a measure of its scope

of influence. Asaffiliat

other organizations.

 
         

   

       

   

      

 

     

 

Some affiliations might not be S$ gTOW
cc atible, and the DM has final in size and power, they increase
ay on such iss For ex: the scale of their activities
amp acampaign where The Bulette Rampant Mer
the human k nof Al enary Company could
thar wars with the elven s inconsequential
realir the DM dre of men-at-arms
might har- with otting ballista
cte iation or as mighty as an army
toth of Althar hire with half a doz
in also have an affiliation e alions and flying
with the ¢ fold Ranger dragon support. An affil-

 

 

ile can be from 1 tc

   

 

 

  

of Gaelia iation's
Multiple Affiliation Ben f 20 and is also defined by a de-
its: If you have multiple criptive term that indicates

iffiliations, you can only gain the benefits of one affiliatior the extent of its influence. Scale directly affects an aff

 

   

ion's capit

 

at a time. If you have a high enough affiliation score to gain i and its ability to project power. Table 7-1,

    

 

 

       

   

   

 

       

         

 

 

       

benef m more than one affiliation, choose which set on page 184

affiliation benefits affect you at the beginning of each day Affiliation Score Criteria: Base requirements for mem:

You gain all the benefits for which you qualify from the if ar c An affiliation might have

hosen affiliation ce ty, alignment, class, or xe other baseline
riteria. The table in this portion of an affiliation

EATURES OF AFFILIATIC 5 descriptior number of factors and how they impact

Your affiliation has many features, some primarily of use ur affiliation score in that group.

in roleplaying and background, These aspects include Titles, Benefits, and Duties: A title is a designation of

basic information as the affiliation’s r and its backgr nk with f s hierarchy. Characters with an

goals, and dreams. Most affil ffi 3 or lower are usually not considered

  

 

ffiliatic

   

enables mi s, members with affiliation

   

nbers to identi

 

mem

 

MA

1,

 
