   
   
   
   
  
 
   
     

 

scores from 4 to 10 are generally looked upon as probation:
ary members. A character with an affiliation score of 30 or
higher attains the most prestigious title.

Lower-rank benefits carry over to higher ranks, but normal
stacking rules apply.

Even if you have founded your own affiliation (as
opposed to positing the existence of one that you can
join as a recruit), you still must increase your affiliation
score normally before you can gain the benefits (and take
on the duties) of a titled member of your affiliation. This
represents the fact that you can’t simply say, “I am founding
an affiliation," and by virtue of that declaration become
entitled to send an assassin after the duke or bring a plague
to the eastern river tribes. Rather, you must establish your
affiliation as a force in the world by satisfying affiliation
score criteria, proving by virtue of your deeds that your
affiliation is a force to be reckoned with and a player on
the political stage.

Executive Powers: Executive powers are wielded by
the affiliation’s leadership, generally those members with
an affiliation score of at least 30. If a PC achieves a higher
affiliation score than a leader NPC, the NPC might quietly
step aside in favor of the newcomer. Many affiliations,
however, force the two contenders to duel or to match wits
in some fashion.

Unless otherwise noted, an affiliation’s leadership can use
one executive power per month.

Details about executive powers are given starting on
page 186

MAKING AFFILIATIONS DYNAMIC

The noon air cooled, and a shadow drifted across the bright silver
coins stacked in Tabark's scales. The moneychanger looked up
from his table in the bazaar and saw the clouds darkening. Large
black raindrops began to fall, When the first blue lizard thudded
onto his table, upsetting the scales and sending the silver coins
tinkling into the air, Tabarke realized this was no summer squall
"The Reviled!” he screamed. “Laogzed's priests plague us!" He ran
for the Sun Fane as the lizard deluge began in earnest, reptiles
plummeting through awnings and crashing into fruit stands,
each lizards body wrapped with crackling lightning and frigid
from its recent altitude.

When you play with affiliations, a new avenue for conflict
resolution and storytelling opens. Plagues, the births of
kingdoms, wars, naval blockades, arcane research break-
throughs, trade embargoes, and other factors become part of
your campaign in new ways. Your character need no longer
do everything from winning the Battle of Stirge Ridge to
lifting the curse on the southern farmlands to negotiating
peace with the Frost Cavern quaggoths, You and your DM
can rely on your affiliation to accomplish some of these tasks
while you spend the bulk of your time focusing on your PC’s
main quest.

Have you ever wondered who will watch your character's
family, castle, or subjects when he is off adventuring? If your
PC is part of the Bulette Rampant mercenary company, you
can simply have a detachment from your battalion watch
over your loved ones. If your DM determines that the Valx

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
 

   

 

Nine-Eyes criminal syndicate strikes at your family while you

are adventuring underground, you can resolve the attempt

by playing out the details (in the absence of your character)
or, more simply, by using opposed violence checks for your
mercenary company and the brute squad sent by the beholder

Jiolence checks are described below.)

Have you ever picked up a powerful magic item, say a
+2 thundering dire flail, that no one in the party could use?
Campaign credulity is stretched by simply selling it to an
anonymous buyer who just happens to have 36,500 gp ready
to spend. Instead, you donate it to your affiliation and increase
its capital—ir is reasonable to assume that a sizable affiliation
includes a member who knows (or now wants desperately to
learn) how to use a dire flail

Have you ever heard yourself utter the lines thar
famously fill a DM's heart with annoyance, frustration,
and uncertainty? Namely, “Can I buy magic items?” When
you use affiliations, businesses and colleges have the trade
executive power, which allows some wondrous items to
come up for sale in the campaign—ifa character has the
right connections

The following rules help guide a dynamic approach to
affiliations,

Capital: An affiliation starts play with capital equal to its
scale. Capital represents different types of assets for different
affiliation types. A fighting company has its capital invested
in soldiers, armor, weapons, and transport, while a cabal has
its capital invested in wondrous items, spellbooks, bound
demon servants, and political secrets.

In wartime and in months of hardship, your affiliation's
capital might go down; in peacetime when trade prospers;
your affiliation’s capital might go up. An affiliation’s mini-
mum capital is 0; its maximum capital is twice its scale. If
your affiliation does nothing for two consecutive months,
normal daily processes increase its capital by 1. A good way
to increase your affiliation’s capital is to donate treasure.
For every 1,000 gp x your affiliation's scale thar you donate
each month, its capital increases by 1. Thus, you must donate
5,000 gp during the course of a month to increase a scale 5
affiliation’s capital by 1. For an affiliation that has a scale
greater than 10, you must donate treasure in the amount of
10,000 gp x the scale to increase capital in this way. Such
organizations have increased their scope to such an extent
that they need not only gold, bur vast tracts of real estate,
arcane secrets, favors of the emperor, the name of the duke’
bastard son, and other nonmonetary items to increase their
stature and power.

An affiliation whose capiral falls to -1 is disbanded and
cannot be refounded for a period of id¢ months.

An affiliation whose capital remains at its maximum for
a number of consecutive months equal to twice its scale
improves one category in scale, For example, ifa scale 4 busi-
ness maintains a capital of 8 for eight consecutive months,
it becomes a scale 5 business

Violence Check: When an affiliation attempts ro do
something using bullyboys, bludgeons, or battles, a violence
check (1d20 + violence bonus) is made. Fighting companies,
governments, and tribes have violence bonuses equal to

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
