  
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
 
 

 
  
    
  
  
   
 

cunning than before.

Affiliation
Score
3 or lower

Title: Benefits and Duties

Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits.

Bloodfist Tribe Member: +4 racial bonus on
Survival checks.

Lodge of the Bear: +2 circumstance bonus
on attempts to influence the attitude of
Bloodfist half-orcs, If you are a barbarian,
your rage lasts for an extra round.

Lodge of the Dire Wolf: +2 inherent bonus
to your Charisma or Intelligence score,

+2 racial bonus on Fortitude saves, and

+4 circumstance bonus on attempts to
influence the attitude of Bloodfist half-orcs
Lodge of the Thunder Eagle: +8 racial bonus
‘on Survival checks, +2 inherent bonus to
whichever ability score you didn’t raise
while at the Lodge of the Dire Wolf rank,
and +8 circumstance bonus on attempts to
influence the attitude of Bloodfist half-orcs.
Lodge of the White Wyrm: Cold resistance
10. When you emerge from the lodge, the
tribe offers you a +2 weapon as a gift

4-10

15

16-22

23-29

30 or higher

Executive Powers: Plunder, raid, terrorize.

BRIGHTMANTLE WEAPON FORGE
AND TRADING CONSORTIUM
Symbol: The symbol of the Brightmantle Consortium is
a forge over water,
Background, Goals, and Dreams: When the trees were
new, and the earth chafed while the mountains grew in
like baby’s teeth, legend goes that Durgan Brightmantle
soothed the stone with gifts of ore and the sweet taste of
gems, Countless eons later, a dwarf clan devoted to Durgan
Brightmantle and the extraction of the earth's riches
founded their business based on mining and smithing
Since then, the small weapons shop in Isher has grown
into one of the most powerful trading enterprises in the
known world, shipping goods across kingdoms and even
overseas, hiring caravan guards and traveling casters and
buying land for forges in a large number of new towns.
Brightmantle has even created entire new towns at particu-
larly promising sites
Enemies and Allies: Of necessity, the Brightmantle
Consortium maintains good relations with all the monarchs
in its scope of influence. Its relations with fighting companies
are often strained, for while the latter are paid to go to war,
business is difficult in those times.
Members: Most members of the Consortium are dwarves,
although all the common races are represented.
The Brightmantle Consortium works diligently to retain
its members, not wishing to expend resources on training
new ones. If one chooses to leave, however, the Consortium

 

   

When the lodge door opens, however, the ritual has served
its purpose: The tribe member emerges tougher and more

   

does not contest the decision, with one exception. If the
guild member joins another business, and the Consortium
feels that trade secrets have been compromised, then the
Consortium lobbies whatever local law exists in an effort to
have the turncoar's new business outlawed.
Type: Business
Scale: 14 (continental/seafaring kingdom).

 

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
5 or more ranks in Diplomacy or Appraise +1 per 5 ranks
in each skill
Can cast charm person +1
Can cast sending or travel by any means more than
100 miles in a day +2
Makes peaceful contact with a new town or potential
customer base +1 per contact (max 3/year)
Successfully guards a caravan +] per caravan guarded
Sells 1,000 gp of weapons
or other goods
Discovers new iron, gem, or
precious metal deposit

+1 per sale (max. 1/month)

+2 per discovery

Less than 5 ranks in Diplomacy or Appraise 2 per skill
Fails to deliver a caravan or message on time -l/day
Loses a shipment of goods ~3/5,000 gp lost

Does not account for at least 10,000 gp of business
per year (whether in direct sales, guard duty, or
prospecting for ore or customers) -6

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you rise through the
ranks of the Consortium, you learn to increase your negotiat-
ing skills, and you gain access to great wealth.

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

3 or lower No affiliation.

4-10 Freelancer: The Consortium occasionally
calls on you to help on specific jobs.

11-20 Associate: +] competency bonus on
Diplomacy checks when speaking about
business matters.

21-29

Subguild Head: Placed in charge of one of
the many subguilds and commanding the
services of five 4th-level experts (allot skill
points as you like, for you can choose from
the many clerks in the Consortium). Once
per month, your experts must each make a
DC 20 Appraise check and a DC 15 Gather
Information check. If three or more fail the
Appraise check, business is bad, and you
lose 1 point from your affiliation score. If
all five fail the Gather Information check,
you fail to anticipate and deter a kidnap and
ransom attempt targeting you or your family,
and an EL 10 band of rogues arrives to carry
out the deed
30 or higher Secretary of the Overguild: Can borrow up to
30,000 gp in cash from guild coffers, but this
debt must be repaid within one year.

Executive Powers: Craff, gift, trade.

  
