CARAVAN OF SHADOWS

Symbol: Once affiliated, you receive a tattoo of a game
token on the back of your left hand in a solemn ceremony.
When other members see the tattoo, they're more likely to
talk to you and believe what you say,

Background, Goals, and Dreams: On the surface, the
Caravan of Shadows isa prosperous halfling clan. But as with
many halfling affairs, there's more going on beneath the
surface. Halfling characters with a connection to the Caravan
of Shadows are part of a network of thieves, spies, and con
artists that stretches across a wide swath of civiliz

The Caravan of Shadows travels from city to city in a long
wagon train, staying at each major settlement for a few days.
The caravan's bards, acrobats, and other entertainers hold a
series of performances, and the clan’s merchants buy and
sell spices and other valuable but easily portable goods. Less
savory members of the caravan pick the pockets of the larger
folk, commit burglaries on a nightly basis, or fle
in games of chance or shady business deals.

Type: Business (racial).

Scale: 7 (city and outliers

Affiliation Score Criteria: Only halflings are eligible
to join the caravan. Nonhalflings are sometimes allowed
to travel with them—especially on dangerous roads—but
fellow travelers don't get a glimpse of the inner workings of
the caravan.

 

 

 

 

 

  

ce the naive

 

    

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Rogue +2
Bard 41
10 or more ranks in Sleight of Hand +2
10 of more ranks in Perform +1

Help another caravan member elude law enforcement +1
Steal or cheat others out of at least 10,000 gp,
then donate proceeds to the caravan +1

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: The reward for greater
affiliation with the Caravan of Shadows is a keener talent
for the skills that have the made the caravan so prosperous.
And if the caravan is in town, you can sell the loot from your
adventures to them at an advantageous rate

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

3orlower —_Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits,

4-10 Caravan Member: +2 racial bonus on Bluff,
Gather Information, and Sleight of Hand
checks.

ns Shadow Pawn: Can sell jewelry, art, and
magic items to the caravan masters for 6096
of their purchase price, +2 circumstance
bonus on attempts to influence the attitude
of caravan members.

16-22 Shadow Knight: Additional +2 racial bonus

on all saving throws. +4 racial bonus on
Bluff, Gather Information, and Sleight of
Hand checks, +4 circumstance bonus on
attempts to influence the attitude of caravan
members.

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

23-29 Shadow Rook: You can sell jewelry, art, and
magic items to the caravan masters for 70%
of their purchase price,

30orhigher Shadow Castle: +6 racial bonus on Bluff,

Gather Information, and Sleight of Hand
checks. +8 circumstance bonus on attempts
to influence the attitude of caravan members.

Executive Powers: Pariah, shadow war, trade,

CASTLE MAIRO

Symbol: The symbol of Castle Mairo is the battered
breastplate of Herridek I. In more intricate heraldic designs,
the broken flint hammers of troglodytes can be seen lying
below the shield

Background, Goals, and Dreams: Three centuries and
one day after the Third Troglodytic Ruin razed the original
Fort Mairo to the ground, Castle Mairo was raised in its place.
Regdar had defeated Iathra, Pharaoh of the Reviled, and the
cases on the edges of the desert were once again safe. Before
leaving, Regdar helped his brother, Herridek II, to found a
stnall keep on the border of the dunes.

Life in the oasis can be harsh when the sandstorms roll
through, but the presence of copper, platinum, and mithral
in the surrounding hills and even the bubbling oasis itself
provides ample reason for the castle's continued existence.

Members: Herridek [1 rules the castle wisely, and he
recruits all manner of citizens to his nascent barony: men-at-
arms, certainly, but also wizards, bards, rangers, and skilled
rogues. The castle is especially desperate for divine casters
and healers.

Herridek 1] is a beneficent monarch and allows individu-
als to enter and leave his domain at their leisure. In times
of crisis—if a new pharaoh were to rise in the lands of the
Reviled, for instance—all those nearby are drawn inside the
castle walls and expected to aid in its defense.

Type: Government

Scale: 9 (regional/barony).

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Base attack bonus +5 or higher +1
Base attack bonus +10 or higher* +2
5 or more ranks in Survival +1
Can cast cure spells 2nd level or higher +4
Explored the shafts of +] for each

the Raptor-Pharaohs tomb shaft fully explored
Slew Raptor-Pharaoh mummy +1/4 Hit Dice of mummy

Knew Regdar or Herridek | +4
Takes part in defense of the fort against raiders +4
Is an outlaw =—2
Retreats in battle =z
Commits a crime within the barony -10
Is member of a thieves guild =10

* Overlaps (does not stack with) the modifier for a base
attack bonus of +5 or higher.

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you advance in the
hierarchy of the barony, you gain access to its riches and

 
