 
  
  
  
   
 
 

     

begin to enjoy the benefits of nobility, while accepting the
duties thereof.

Once you attain the rank of Knight Baronet, you are
invested with authority in the castle. Herridek the Second
often makes forays into the desert for weeks or months at a
time, harassing the Reviled and making sure that they are
nota threat to the Castle and its mines.

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

3orlower —_No affiliation.

4-10 Free Citizen: Are a citizen of the barony but
gain no special status.

n-20 Hero; +2 circumstance bonus on Diplomacy
checks involving other cirizens of the barony.

21-29 Knight: Gain the patronage of Herridek I,
which grants a +4 bonus on Diplomacy and
Gather Information checks made within the
barony.

30 orhigher Knight Baronet: Command the services of

an honor guard consisting of twelve Ist-level
fighters, two Sth-level fighters, one Sth-level
wizard, and two 7th-level halfling rangers
mounted on giant eagles,

Executive Powers: Law, raid, war.

THE CHALICE

Symbol: The symbol of the Chalice isa ruby chalice with
crossed ivory lightning bolts on the cup.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The Chalice is an armed
company dedicated to stamping out the influence of devils.
demons, yugoloths and other slavering fiends on the Material
Plane, The paladin Arbinget Ivenay founded the Chalice a mil
Jennia ago with one goal: to recover the Chalice of Heironeous
from Dispater's Iron City of Dis. Aside from the members of
the group's Lightning Council, no one knows if the chalice
was recovered or not, but regardless of the chalice's fare, in
the intervening ages the affiliation’s purpose has broadened
to ending the influence of the Lower Planes in the world.

Members: Many members of the Chalice are paladins,
priests, and fighters; many of these eventually take levels in
the knight of the Chalice prestige class (see Complete Warrior).
Mortality is high among the membership of this combative
affiliation, and as such the Chalice is always looking to induct
new members of sufficient piety.

The Chalice is not a vengeful organization, and freely
allows members to leave its ranks. Ifa member departs due to
falling from paladinhood, fiendish possession, or alignment
change—or tries to covertly corrupt the Chalice from within
after suffering one of these fates—the Lightning Council
dispatches an EL 14 exorcism squad (typically a 13th-level
paladin and a 13th-level cleric of Olidammara) that is more
inclined to smite first and ask for repentance by means of
speak with dead much later

Secrets: When you attain the rank of Lightning Coun
cilor, the other councilors lead you somberly to the Eyrie
of Heironeous. There, among the lightning rods of the
order, under a clouding sky, they inform you of the true
nature of the Chalice of Heironeous, What was stolen from

 

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  

   

Heironeous millennia ago—not by Dis, but by Hextor, who
attempted to shirk responsibility for his deed (and to better
secure his prize) by loaning the chalice to the Iron Lord of
the Second—was not a powerful magic item, nor even an
artifact, As revealed to Arbinget Ivenay by the solar Tomal
on the eve of St. Vorgan’s Day 1,223 years ago, the Chalice of
Heironeous is in fact the daughter of Heironeous, a young
goddess-angel now held in durance vile deep in Dispater's
Iron Tower. Every day, the Lightning Councilors dream of
rescuing her; every day, they come no closer,

Type: Fighting company.

Scale: 12 (multiregional/kingdom).

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Base attack bonus +10 or higher +1
Can cast divine spells +1
Knight of the Chalice prestige class +1 per two levels
Wields a holy avenger +8
Has slain a fiend with more than 9 HD +1 per fiend
Has written a treatise on slaying fiends 42

Successful mission on behalf

of the Chalice

Successful mission on behalf of the
Lightning Council

+2 per mission

+4 per mission

Neutral alignment -15
Evil alignment -25
Defeated by a fiend 4
Friends with a half-fiend, tiefling, or other tainted —10

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you advance within the
ranks of the Chalice, you learn demon-fighting techniques
and how to resist the temptations of fiends.

Affiliation
Score

3 orless
4-10

Title: Benefits and Duties

No affiliation.

Initiate: The Chalice recognizes you as a
potential ally or enemy in the struggle to
eliminate fiends from the Material Plane.
Defender: You are inducted into
membership, and can requisition a potion of
protection from evil Ijweek.

Thunderer: Chalice priests cast up to 3rd-level
cure spells for free (excluding component
costs) when you visit their temple.

Scion of Heironeous: Chalice priests cast
up to 4th-level spells for free (excluding
component costs) when you visit their temple.
Paragon of Heironeous: By taking a—5 penalty
to your affiliation score, you can gain a raise
dead spell from a Chalice priest. Fiends can
make a Knowledge (the planes} check (DC 30
minus your character level) to recognize you,
and if they succeed, their frenzy grants them
+2 on damage rolls when attacking you.
Lightning Councilor: Once per year, you can
borrow for 1 week any magic weapon or
armor with a value of 18,000 gp or less from
the Chalice's armory. While you do so, the
affiliation takes a —1 penalty to its capital.

n-15

16-20

20-24

25-29

30 or higher

Executive Powers: Crusade, inquisition, war.
