DARKSPIRE COLLEGE
OF THAUN

Symbol: The college's symbol is three black
stalactites, one larger than the other two, ona
gold field.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The
Darkspire College's campus is built into the
sides of three enormous hanging stalactites
tapering down from the vaulted ceiling of
a colossal underground cavern. Piercer, the
largest stalactite, extends more than 300 feet
down from the ceiling and has a base with a
radius of 150 feet. It houses laboratories and
libraries for each school of arcane magic, a
concert hall, thirteen summoning chambers,
two gymnasiums, the Desmodu Dormitory,
and lecture halls, Each of the Fangs, the other
two stalactites, is roughly two-thirds the size
of the Piercer. They contain classrooms, stud-
ies, artists’ cupolae, and practice rooms. The
northernmost Fang also features the Sunless
Rose tavern and a warehouse. The warehouse
stores goods in transit to and from the surface
and other underground communities, and it
sells surplus and goods gone unclaimed when
acaravan doesn't return. The warehouse has a
25% chance to have any given Player's Handbook
item in stock and available at 150% of the price.

The Piercer and the Fangs are connected by a
network of rope bridges.

Faculty and students attend Darkspire to
increase their arcane knowledge, and that is
the stated goal of the organization.

Enemies and Allies: The students, fac-
ulty, and administration maintain friendly
relationships with most of the other peaceful
residents of Thaun (the underground cavern
that hosts the college's spires on a small part
of its roof), These peaceful residents include
svirfneblin, deep dwarves, two nomadic
tribes of myconids, and a small community
of exiled drow.

The college is harassed by most drow, by an
aboleth that lives in Thaun Lake, and by Cher-
ruk, a derro warlord who claims ownership of
the caverns immediately above Thaun,

Members: The College holds no grudge
against those who leave its faculty, Indeed,
given the college's location, it counts on los-
ing at least one faculty member per year to
beasts, slavers, or an accidental fall from a
rope bridge.

‘Type: College.

Scale: 5 (city).

Affiliation Score Criteria: Joining the
Darkspire College is as simple as enrolling;
however, to become a faculty member requires
long study and arcane puissance.

 

The inverted towers of Thaun
hide many secrets

5
=
=
s
=
&

 
