    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
     
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

do than fly around with humans on their backs. Those who
become dragonspeakers imbibe a ritual draught contain-
ing dragon blood; this liquid lengthens the human life span
and makes the dragons more likely to regard you as a suit
able rider. But only the best dragonspeakers are offered the
ritual that rurns them into dragonriders, who are able to
command a dragon for as long as it takes a moon to wax and
then wane into nothingness. The greatest heroes of Dragon
Island mystically bond with their mounts, creating an on-
going relationship between willing steed and rider.

Affiliation
Score
3 or lower

Title: Benefits and Duties

Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits.

4-10 Dragon Island Native: +2 circumstance
bonus on attempts to influence the attitude
of Dragon Island residents. Your age
categories (see page 109 of the Player's
Handbook) become twice as long, although
you don’t revert to a younger age category.
Dragonspeaker: +4 bonus on saving throws
against a dragon's frightful presence. +2
racial bonus on Knowledge (arcana) and
Knowledge (history) checks.

Dragonrider: +4 racial bonus on Ride checks
when riding a dragon.

Dragonknight: If you take the Leadership
feat, you can have a dragon cohort.

30 or higher Dragonmaster: +8 racial bonus on

Ride checks when riding a dragon. +8
circumstance bonus on attempts to influence
the attitude of Dragon Island residents.
immune to the frightful presence

of dragons. Your age categories

(see page 109 of the Player's
Handbook) become four times as

long, although you don't revert to

a younger age category,

n-15

15-22

23-29

Executive Powers: Holiday, law, mint, war,

ELVES OF THE HIGH FOREST

Symbol: A cluster of acorns is the symbol of the Elves
of the High Forest. Their jewelry often uses this motif, and

they use the real thing—actual clusters of acorns—as subtle

trail markers within the High Forest.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The Elves of the
High Forest live in atypical elf community: a series of
treetop villages and small towns that together form
a network to keep their forest safe and thriving.

Type: Tribe (racial).

Scale: 6 (city).

Affiliation Score Criteria: To gain affiliation
with the Elves of the High Forest, you need only be
an elf or halfelf The elves have many non-elf friends
in the forest, but only those with elf blood can partake
in the privileged Hunt of the Full Moon. You don't
need to grow up among the Elves of the High Forest;
you can be from a far-off elf community, and you'll
still gain affiliation with these elves normally,

The Ei

The Elves of the High Forest have a semicommunal life-
style, so they favor characters with skills or class abilites that
make a woodland lifestyle easier. The fastest way to gain status
within the Elves of the High Forest is to perform missions
on their behalf. The elves particularly favor missions that
prowectthe forest ssawhole from tntedopers—frorm human:
woodcutters to drow raiders.

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Druid or ranger "1
10 or more ranks in Knowledge (nature) or

Profession (herbalist) 42
Each successful mission +2
Each successful forest defense mission* +4

* Overlaps (does not stack with) the “each successful
mission” bonus.

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: The Elves of the High
Forest offer specialized training in woodcraft for those
they favor,

Those who reach a new level of status within the Elves
of the High Forest attain the new benefits after attending
the Hunt of the Full Moon—a combination night-hunt and
ritual, The greatest hunters among the elves take you on an
all-night hunt for elusive game. The target is traditionally
a half-fey white stag, but sometimes the elves hunt more
dangerous quarry by necessity or for variety. During the
night, they teach you specialized techniques in perception,
stealth, and moving through the wilderness. Some say the
hunters leave the Material Plane entirely and wind up hunt-
ing mystical game among the fey of Arborea. You'll return
in che morning exhausted, bur with the sharper perceptions

and peerless camouflage of the greatest elf hunters.

 

 

 

if the High Forest take part ix the Hunt of the Full Moon
