   
    
     
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

Affili
Score
3 or lower

ion

 

Title: Benefits and Duties

Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits,

Friend of the High Forest: +2 circumstance
bonus on attempts to influence the attitude
of High Forest elves

Guardian of the Branch: +4 racial bonus on
Listen, Search, and Spot checks.

Guardian of the Trunk: +4 racial bonus on
Hide and Move Silently checks performed
outdoors, +4 circumstance bonus on
attempts to influence the attitude of High
Forest elves

Guardian of the Root: +8 racial bonus

on Listen, Search, and Spot checks, and
the woodland stride ability (PH 48),

+8 circumstance bonus on attempts to
influence the attitude of High Forest elves
Guardian of the Forest's Heart: +2 effective
caster level to all druid and ranger spells
when casting spells within the boundaries of
the High Forest.

4-10

Ws

16-22

23-29

30 or higher

Executive Powers: Craft, harvest, plague.

THE GOLDEN HELM GUILD

Symbol: A golden helm is the symbol of the guild, natu
rally. Working in their smithies and forges, the gnomes often
wear yellow skulleaps to indicate their affiliation:

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The Golden Helm
Guild isa network of expert master crafters that spans dozens
of gnome communities, making fine armor, weapons, and
other gear for the greatest heroes of the gnomes, But the
Golden Helm is no mere blacksmithing guild, It focuses on

Tilus. by E.. Widermann

The gnomes of the Golden Helm Guild make fine weapons and ar

 

and they're capable of wsing them

creating rare items invested with potent magic, each one a
testament to its maker's skill and power.

Missions on behalf of the Golden Helm Guild often involve
securing rare ores or finding other special ingredients that
the guild can use in its most potent creations

The guild often commissions its most talented members
to make magic weapons, armor, or other gear to sell or give
toa gnome-allied war effort. Each item you make on the
guild's behalf worth at least 10,000 gp earns you +1 to your
affiliation score, You can earn this bonus multiple times,
but only if the Golden Helm Guild commissions the items
ahead of time,

Type: Business (racial

Scale: 10 (regional/march),

Affiliation Score Criteria: Guild membership is open
only to gnomes, but anyone who can swing a hammer is
welcome to sign up for an apprenticeship. Unless you have
some talent for crafting either mundane or magic items, you
won't derive any benefit from your affiliation.

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
10 or more ranks in at least one Craft skill +2
10 or more ranks in a second Craft skill +2
20 or more ranks in at least one Craft skill +4
Per item creation feat* +]
Each successful mission +]
Per magic item worth at least

10,000 gp made for guild 4

* Does not include the item creation feat gained by
someone who becomes a Golden Helm Master (see
below)

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: When you've earned enough
affiliation to attain new benefits, you need only apply for a
promotion at the nearest Golden Helm chapterhouse, which
exists in any gnome community of large town size o larger.
Aftera s, the guild will award you the
new rank and hold a lavish feast in your honor.

eries of examinatio:

   

Affiliation
Score
3 or lower

Title: Benefits and Duties

Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits

Golden Helm Apprentice: +2 racial bonus on
Appraise checks relating to stone or metal
objects. +4 racial bonus on any one Craft skill
Golden Helm Journeyman: +6 racial bonus
on Appraise checks relating to stone or
metal objects. +6 racial bonus on the Craft
skill you chose when you were a journeyman,
and a +4 racial bonus on another Craft skill.
Golden Helm Master: Gain Craft Magic
Arms and Armor as a bonus feat. You can
craft magic arms and armor as if you had a
caster level equal to 1/2 your Hit Dice. This
ability does not allow you to meet any other
prerequisites of crafting a magic itern.
Golden Helm Grandmaster: Craft magic
arms and armor as if you had a caster level
equal to your Hit Dice.

4-10

H-15

15-22

23-29
