Affiliation

‘Score Title: Benefits and Duties

30 or higher Golden Helm Exalted: Spend 10% fewer
experience points than normal when crafting
a magic item.

Executive Powers: Craft, gift, trade.

THE LAND OF HONOR

Symbol: The Land of Honor doesn’t have a nationwide
symbol, Each feudal lordship has its own colorful heraldry,
most using abstract decorations rather than real-world sym-
bols like animals or words.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: Humans from this
land live in a society guided by feudal lords who often war
against one another. Bur the wars are largely fought by a
caste of noble soldiers who regard bartle as an opportunity
to demonstrate their bravery and adherence to a rigid code
of honor. Rather than draw inspiration from medieval and
Renaissance Europe, this land hearkens back to feudal Japan
and the Age of Samurai

In your own game, the Land of Honor might be its own
nation-state, or perhaps it remains a vague and exotic place
beyond the periphery of the campaign map. Give it whatever
name you like,

Your human character can be a traveler or an exile from
the Land of Honor. If you want to retain your unique cultural
identity, consider an affiliation with others from your land.
Perhaps colonies or communities of exiles exist beyond the
borders of the Land of Honor, or perhaps travel back and
forth is sufficiently easy that you can periodically return to
the land of your birth.

If you're wielding executive powers, you're either one of
the feudal lords or the power behind the lord’s throne. Your
concerns vary as widely as those of any real-world ruler; you
might care about the welfare of your subjects, or you might
care only about games of power o living a life of wealth
and leisure.

Type: Government (racial).

Scale: 15 (continental /empire).

Affiliation Score Criteria: Unless one is human and
born in the Land of Honor, a character is accepted in this
affiliation only under extraordinary circumstances

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Fighter or monk +2
5 or more ranks in Diplomacy “
10 or more ranks in Diplomacy +2
Defeat worthy foe in honorable duel 41

Perform mission at lord's request +2 (and —4 if you fail)

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you gain affiliation with
the Land of Honor, your feudal lord will reward you with a
ceremonial—bur very functional—katana. A katana is sta-
tistically identical toa bastard sword, Your willingless to live
and die by your honor code becomes increasingly apparent
from your bearing, and many foes will shamefacedly avoid
a duel with you.

 

Affiliation
Score
3 or lower

Title: Benefits and Duties

Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits.

Citizen of Land of Honor: +2 circumstance
bonus on atternpts to influence the attitude
of other citizens of the Land of Honor. Your
lord gives you a masterwork katana.
Fearless One: +2 racial bonus on Intimidate
checks. Gain Knowledge (nobility and royalty)
as a class skill, regardless of your class.
Honorable One: +4 racial bonus on
Intimidate checks. +4 circumstance bonus
on attempts to influence the attitude of
citizens of the Land of Honor, Gain Quick
Draw feat when drawing your katana.
Selfless One: +6 racial bonus on Intimidate
checks. +8 circumstance bonus on attempts
to influence the attitude of citizens of the Land
of Honor. +4 bonus on attack rolls made to
confirm a critical hit with your katana.
Perfected One: Gain damage reduction

1/- when you wield your katana.

4-10

ns

16-22

23-29

30 or higher

Executive Powers: Gift, law, war.

MERATA KON

Symbol: There is no symbol for the Merata Kon asa whole.
Most travelers recognize a Merata clan by its krenshar-hide
tents and the smoke puffs thar rise on the horizon when a
Merata scout or companion band signals.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The Merata Kon is a
network of barbarian clans, sweeping nomadically from the
coastal plains to the high scrub forest, living off wandering
herds, seasonal vegetation, and ransomed travelers. Some
tribes of the Merata Kon allow themselves to be hired as
mercenaries, making raids on borderland baileys, but many
would-be patrons shy away from these tribes because both
its savagery and geographical uncertainty make it somewhat
unreliable. Nonetheless, the people of the Kon are a powerful
force due to their numbers and ferocity,

In the spring of each year, all the Merata clans gather in
one place for an Althing, where horses are traded, daughters
are wed, and alliances are fixed. Occasionally, in times of
need, a Chief of Chiefs is selected, but most years there is no
higher authority than the chiefs of the individual clans.

Enemies and Allies: The clans are constantly in a state
of tension with the civilized city-states and kingdoms whose
frontier lands and territories they drift over seasonally,
ignoring political borders like rain or wind or any other
force of nature.

Members: The tribe consists mostly of halforcs, humans,
and disaffected half-elves who find much in common with the
natural and alienated lifestyle of the tribe. There are known
to be Merata clerics, but there are virtually no arcane casters
outside of a few skald bard/barbarians,

‘The varied Merata clans have no political argument against
former members, but most clan chiefs take desertion person-
ally. In most cases, a Merata who leaves his clan is disowned
and shunned forevermore.

‘Type: Tribe.

 
