  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
 
  
  

 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
     

Scale: 13 (multiregional/kingdom and vassal states).

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level 41/2 PC's level
Base attack bonus +5 or higher 4
Base attack bonus +10 or higher* 42
5 or more ranks in Survival +1
10 or more ranks in Survival +2
Trophy Hunter feat +1
Can cast contro! weather 8

Defeat animal or magical beast
of your level or higher one-on-one _+1/4 creature's HD

Defeat a clan champion one-on-one +2 per win
No ranks in Survival 2
Has lived in city of
Does not accept a —6, and cannot improve affiliation
challenge to combat score until challenge is accepted
Member of a civilized affiliation —4 per affiliation

* Overlaps (does not stack with) the modifier for a base
attack bonus of +5 or higher.

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you learn the v of the
Merata, you learn to make these smoke signals yourself as you
increase your survival skills and become closer to nature.

 

 

 
 

Affiliation

Score Title:

3 or lower No affi

4-10 Lowborn: The Merata Kon hold less
contempt for you than for most.

1-20 Setaf Kon: +2 competence bonus on

Diplomacy checks involving your clanmates
and a +2 competency bonus on Survival
checks made when traveling with clanmates.

21-29 Trebor Kon: Become a subchief and have a
3rd-level adept to assist you. By a system
of bonfires and smoke, you can transmit
signals 200 miles across the Stalking Plains
im 1d2 days.

30 orhigher Clan Chief: You are accompanied by four
chief's men (6th-level barbarians), and your
counsel is a 4th-level cleric/4th-level bard.

Executive Powers: Harvest, raid, terrorize,

THE ONE AND THE FIVE

Symbol: The symbol of the One and the Five is six black,
hooded figures on a violet starburst field.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: A secret ring of six
wizards and sorcerers is at the heart of this cabal, Arcane
casters vexed by a lack of resources find this group's support
exceptionally useful for purchasing spellbooks, researching
new spells, and perfecting metamagic techniques.

Enemies and Allies: The cabal has strained relations with
most other organizations, Its secretive core, the six wizards
and sorcerers known as the titular One and the Five, frustrate
the attempts of spy rings and thieves guilds to penetrate and
gather information, while their subsidization of spell books,
research, and material components irks arcane colleges and
many business guilds.

Members: Most of the members are human, but the One
and the Five welcome all to their cabal, and in addition to

 

    

half-ores, dwarves, and gnomes, two centaurs and one gyno-
sphinx are known to be associated with the affiliation.

No one knows what happens if you try to leave the One
and the Five, For some reason, no one ever has—or at least,
no one is talking about it.

Secrets: Once you reach an affiliation score of 30, you
must defeat one of the current One and Five ina mortal spell
duel. After killing your opponent, you are inducted into the
heart of the cabal, where you learn that the order is devoted
to Vecna, and that the One represents his Eye, and the Five
represent the fingers of his severed hand,

You need not worry about converting to worship of Vecna
at this point—when you first attained an affiliation score of
25 or higherand the subtle wooings of the inner cabal did not
persuade you to convert to the service of the Maimed Lord,
EL 14 assault squads of summoned monsters and golems are
sent to kill you before you learn the cabal's secret.

‘Type: Cabal.
Scale: 10 (regional/march).

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level 41/2 PC's level
5 or more ranks in Knowledge (arcana) +1
Can prepare arcane spells 4
Can cast arcane spells of 3rd level or higher 4
Can cast divination spells of Sth level or higher 42
Has over 2,500 gp in magic items +1
Donates magic item valued at 1,000 gp

or more to the cabal +] per item, max six/year

Shares Sth-level or higher-level spell with other
wizards at cabal Grand Convocation, held twice/year +2
Completes mission for the leaders of the

cabal, the One and the Five +2 per mission
Can cast divine spells 6
Divulges identities of members or

other secrets of the cabal -4
Is known to investigate -10, and an EL 12 coterie of
the identities or the nature sorcerer wraiths is sent
of the One and the Five to dissuade or dispose of you
Is a member of a spy ring -6

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you advance in the cabal, your
knowledge of the arcane increases. You also gain access to spells
and discounted components, paraphernalia, and research.

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

3 or lower No affiliation.

4-10 Of the Many: The cabal is aware of your
presence and judging you.

11-20 Of tthe Mind: When you gain a wizard level,
automatically learn three spells rather than
two.

21-29 Of the Body: When you craft a magic item,

pay only 909% the gp cost.

30 orhigher Ofthe One and the Five: Three times per
year, you can borrow any wondrous item in
the Dungeon Master's Guide of 10,000 gp
value or less for up to 1 week. You may not
borrow a charged item in this manner.

Executive Powers: Craft, research, shadow war.
