 
    
   
    
  
 
  
   
 
    
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  

  
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
  

 
      

Affiliation
Score
W-15

Title: Benefits and Duties

Hood: You must run the gauntlet and be
initiated. If you survive, you gain an income of
200 gp/month. you must purchase equipment
only from the guild, which maintains supply
houses selling everything in the Player's
Handbook and items of 1,000 gp value or
less from the Dungeon Master's Guide.
Bravo: In the city, +4 insight bonus on

Hide and Move Silently checks and +2
circumstance bonus on Sleight of Hand
checks. The City Watch recognizes you if its
Spot check beats your opposed Disguise
check and attacks on sight.

Made Man: You can fence up to 3,000 gp

of items for 9096 market value each month.
Income of 400 gp/month to spend at guild
supply houses as above. Travel with impunity
through the Sewerworkers Union's sewers
and the Chimney Sweeps’ rooftops.
Insurance Boss, Chief Solicitor, or Beggar:
master: +6 bonus on Gather Information
and Intimidate checks in the city. You can
borrow any one of the following from guild
coffers for 1 week at a time: a cloak of
elvenkind, boots of elvenkind, or any wand
described in the Dungeon Master's Guide.
The City Watch considers you untouchable
and no longer attacks on sight. Must make

a DC 20 Diplomacy check each week or be
forced to pay 100 gp in bribes and kickbacks.
Must fight off regular assassination atternpts.

16-22

23-29

30 or higher

 

Executive Powers: Patiah, plunder, shadow war,

RESTENFORD
SEWERWORKERS GUILD

Symbol: The symbol of the Sewerworkers Guild is asty!-
ized image of the guildmaster: a square with a circle in it,
representing Smiling Gordin and the head it contorts intoa
grinning rictus when communicating.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: Rat runners, ooze
masters, subterranean tinkers, exterminators, conjurorsand
abjurers of filth—the members of the Sewerworkers Guild
are unnoticed by most and unthanked by all, The guild is
responsible for the operation of the city’s vast subterranean
tunnel network. Repair work and extermination occupy much
of the guild members’ time, but these menial tasks only serve
to mask the guild's true nature.

The guild's leaderis Smiling Gordin,a miraculously awakened

 

 
 

gelatinous cube, originally brought into the sewers because of

its ability to scour a passageway clean simply by oozing through
it, The origin of Gordin’s intelligence is unknown, but the
quality of that intelligence is unquestioned. Communicating
by gelatinous convulsions that manipulate the vocal cords of
various heads absorbed into his body and not yet dissolved
(the city is a violent place, and there is no shortage of heads
for Gordin), Gordin has built the Sewerworkers Guild into
one of the most powerful spy rings in the region,
Enemies and Allies: Utilizing their near-invisible status
and all-city access to the fullest, Gordin and the sewerworkers

   

maintain good relations with the aboveground Guild of Insur-
ers, Solicitors, and Beggars (thieves guild) and often collaborate
with that guild on missions.

Members: Not surprisingly, most members of the Sewer-
workers are rogues, buta fair number are arcane casters, and
some who appear to be ooze masters are whispered to be
priests of Juiblex.

The Sewerworkers cannot allow anyone to leave their
ranks. The knowledge gained by the spies is valuable, and the
tunnel crawlers are loath to risk letting it get away for free,
but the real threat is one of exposure. Smiling Gordin simply
cannot allow anyone to learn of the spy ring’s existence.
Anyone leaving the ranks soon comes face to face with an
EL 14 strike ream lead by an otyugh assassin.

Secrets: By the time you become Guild Boss, you learn thar
Smiling Gordin has become fixated on learning why it was chosen
for intelligence. While it pursues that goal (and toward that end
it mightask you to complete adventures that itcannot), Gordin
is content to become the Guild Grandfather, retaining ultimate
veto power but relinquishing day-to-day control to you.
‘Type: Spy ring.

Scale: 6 (city).

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Is deformed or maimed +1
5 or more ranks in Hide or Disguise +1 per skill
Can cast divination spells of 3rd level or higher +6
Sneak attack +246 or higher +2

Brings back sample of ooze, mold, or
slime to study

Completes a mission for the guild +4 per mission
Lives in sewers +4
\s double agent with another spy ring +6
Has no ranks in Hide, Disguise, Bluff,

+1 per sample

Spot, Listen, or Sense Motive 2 per skill
is followed by City Watch or a member

of a rival affiliation into the tunnels -2
Is visibly shocked by Smiling Gordin’s appearance

(one time only, DC 15 Bluff check on first meeting) -4
Fails a mission for the Sewerworkers -6

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you advance in the
Sewerworkers' Guild, you improve your spying and
information-gathering skills and learn to use the city tun-
nels to your advantage.

Affiliation
Score Title: Benefits and Duties
3orlower No affiliation.

4-10 Squatter: The Sewerworkers allow you to
squat at night in the tunnels.

1-20 Rat Runner: +2 competence bonus on
Gather Information checks in the city,
21-29 Ooze Master: +2 circumstance bonus on

Hide or Move Silently checks in the sewers.

30 orhigher Guild Father: Reroll a failed Spot or Listen
check 3/day. +1 resistance bonus on saves
against disease.

Executive Powers: Assassinate, pariah, research.
