SHARULHEN
THEA Wy TOWERS

Symbol: Sharulhensa has no particular symbol, but many
of the buildings within the neighborhood have fonts and
fountains incorporated into their design—a architectural
nod to the magic pools.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: Sharulhensa isa half
elf enclave built within the walls of a human metropolis
Raised on the ruins of an ancient elf empire, the enclave
holds onto its magical heritage even as other cultures have
supplanted elves as the dominant humanoids across the
land. The half-elves of Sharulhensa remember the mighty
magic of their forebears, and they pass along ancient tradi
tions to the new generation in an effort to connect their
dual heritage

Secrets; Throughout the city of Sharulhensa are sacred

pools believed to hold the spirits of departed halfelves in a
quiescent state. When a half-elf drinks of these waters, he
or she gains a measure of magical power and a sense of the
eldritch tapestry that weaves together residents of Sharul-
hensa, no matter how far they roam. The enclave's elders
keep the locations of the sacred pools a secret even from the
ordinary residents of Sharulhensa, so the only way to get

 

access to the pools is by garnering favor with Sharulhensa's
elders—earning affiliation, in other words.

The movers and shakers within Sharulhensa have intense
academic rivalries with each
more of their elven heritage

Type: College (racial)

Scale: 2 (neighborhoods).

Affiliation Score Criteria: Only halfelve:
join this affiliation. Sharulhensa residents regard full-blooded
elves as lacking sufficient vitality and energy to guard the
heritage of their ancient forebears.

other as they vie to recapture

   

are eligible to

 

 

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level +1/2 PC's level
Wizard +2
Other spellicaster #1
10 or more ranks in Knowledge (arcana) +2
Each successful mission +
Recovers a magic item worth 30,000 gp or more +2
Recovers a spellbook with at least 7th-level spells 4

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: Sharulhensa sometimes
needs adventurers to undertake missions on its behalf. If you
complete such an adventure suc
your affiliation score with the ha

 

 

essfully, you can increase
elf enclave. But moreso
than the standard “Stop the orc horde marching toward the

 

city” mission, recovering the elves’ ancient heritage earns
favor with Sharulhensa’s elders—even if you're recovering
that heritage from the elves themselves. In particular, you can
improve your status with Sharulhensa if you retrieve major
magic items crafted by the elves long ago and grimoires with
high-level arcane spells. Not any magic sword or spellbook
will do, however—Sharulhensa is interested only in items
steeped in elven history.

The reward of Sharulhensa affilation—access to the magic
pools—is great, but earning affiliation with Sharulhensa is

 

 

The baif-elves of Sharnibensa are dedicated

to preserving ancient lore

more difficult than most other racial affiliations, Those who
persevere find their ability to wield magic, especially the
subtle enchantments of the elves, vastly improved.

 

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

Zorlower Not affiliated or junior member with no
benefits.

4-14 izen of Sharulhensa: +2 circurnstance
bonus on attempts to influence the attitude
of Sharulhensa half-elves.

15-22 Pool of the Inscrutable: +] to the DC of
saving throws against your enchantment
spells and spell-like abilities.

23-29 Pool of Influence: +8 circumstance bonus
on attempts to influence the attitude of
Sharulhensa half-elves.

30 orhigher Pool of the Endless: Gain detect magic as a

spell-like ability usable at will (caster level
equal to your Hit Dice).

Executive Powers: Gift, research, trade.

 
