    
 
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
   

SUN FANE

Symbol: The symbol of the Sun Fane is the same as that of

Pelor: a shining sun.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The Sun Fane is a pow-
erful Pelorite temple. A cyclopean golden dome, representing
the sun, rests atop colossal blue marble walls, representing
the sky, and both are supported by golden flying buttresses,
completing the tableau by representing the sun's rays shining
down on the earth,

The goal of the temple is to witness for Pelor and spread the
glory of its merciful diety. All members of the temple turn a
stern eye on those who disparage Pelor as a “part-time god"
who only works half the day.

The prelates, canons, and bishops of the Sun Fane are all
ardent in their worship of Pelor, but this does not stop them
from engaging in heated internal politics. The One Sun is
the archcanon of the temple, and when a leader steps down
or passes away into the sun's brilliant radiance, the infighting
is fierce.

Members: Most of the Sun Fane's members are clerics,
and only a cleric can rise to become the One Sun. Paladins,
rogue scholars, and a few druids also climb the ecclesiastical
ladder of the Sun Fane's hierarchy

In keeping with its merciful teachings, the Sun Fane holds
no grudge against those who leave its ranks, The temple is
notoriously persistent, however, in trying to win back souls,
and those who leave the Sun Fane hierarchy can expect many
old friends to come calling with news of brilliant grace and
blessed light.

Type: Temple.

Scale: 12 (kingdom)

Affiliation Score Criteria: The Sun Fane is open only to
those of non-evil alignment.

 

 

Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier
Character level 41/2 PC's level
5 or more ranks in Heal +1
Can cast divine spells of 3rd level or higher 4

Can cast divine spells of Sth level or higher*
Undertakes missionary voyage

Converts creature to Pelor's faith (convert
must remain a believer)

+1 per voyage

+] per convert

Raises or resurrects an innocent soul with own funds +2
Donates 15% or more of treasure to Sun Fane +2
Cannot cast divine spells 2
Sells spells to neutral creature =4
Sells spells to evil creature for nonevil purpose 6

Acts against alignment 10 ,and cannot improve
affiliation score until
undergoing atonement

* Overlaps (does not stack with) the bonus for casting

divine spells of 3rd level or higher.

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: As you advance in the
ranks of the Pelorite priesthood, you learn to win converts
to your faith, to spread the healing light of your faith, and to
scourge the undead (along with, some would say, rivals for
the archbishopric).

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 

Affiliation

Score Title: Benefits and Duties

3 or lower No affiliation.

4-10 Lay Worshiper: The Sun Fane welcomes you
as a faithful member of the congregation,

11-20 Ordained: +2 competence bonus on
Knowledge (religion) checks when
consulting the Sun Fane's library.

21-29 Canon: +] competence bonus on Diplomacy
checks

30 or higher Archbishop: The Sun Fane broach, vestment

of your office (does not take up space on,
the body) grants you a +2 bonus on turning
checks.

Executive Powers: Crusade, excommunicate, holiday.

THE THUNDER SAIL ARGOSY

Symbol: The symbol of the Argosy is emblazoned on the
sails of all three brigantines: a gold lightning bolt on sable.

Background, Goals, and Dreams: The gentle heaving of
the deck underfoot slows, then stops. The gulls overhead quiet,
and the only sound is the rhythmic lapping of the suddenly
becalmed salt sea at the hull. A peal of thunder cracks overthe
horizon, and clouds come scudding across the sky only a few
knots slower than the bolt-on-sable Thunder Sails,

Captain Jons Jakes commands an outlaw fleet of three
brigantines: the Rain Hawk, the Red Lightning, and the flagship
Maelstrom Aria. Few of the current pirates in his fleet were
with him when he started, and those few who have been in his
quarters wonder about the strange crystal sphere kept there,
Slightly larger than the glass buoys used by fisherfolk, the
sphere containsa swirling turquoise mist, and it rests clutched
near the captain’s bedstand in a preserved and upended harpy's
talon, During battle, Captain Jakes hauls the crystal sphere and
harpy-leg monopod onto the aft deck, where he sits on a closed
locker, hunches over the sphere, and strokes it possessively
while barking orders to his mates and crew. He appears quite
mad, but the Thunder Sail Argosy has survived, and the crew
doesn't care whether that is due to cunning ot luck as long
as the gold is good and the grog is thick

Members: Most members of the Argosy are fighter/rogues
or swashbucklers, and many take levels in duelist. A few
important officers are sorcerers or druids, and they function
as artillery and environmental control. Finally, like every
sailing ship, each Thunder Sail vessel has at least one bard, to
sing shanties in time with the hauling of ropes and alleviate
the thirsty, languorous days between plunderings.

The Argosy is not concerned about those who leave its
ranks—and in fact it frequently asks men to leave the
crew (often at the end of a plank after they have crossed
the captain).

Secrets; When you rise to a captaincy, Captain Jakes
informs you of the Thunder Sail Argosy's hidden power and
purpose. Once a prominent plantation owner in a southern
kingdom, Jonas Jakes saw his daughter, a powerful druid
who helped him tend his crops, polymorphed into a green
mist by a chaotic, mad archmage who rode his horse through
town one day and casually sowed destruction in his wake. By
