 

     
   
   
 
 
    
   
      
  
   
  
  
    
   
   
     
 
 
  
    
   
     
     
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

bitable communities. W ins typically secure 1 When you reach a leadership position

   

 

   
         

       

   

 

 
  
 

 

  
 

      

complex deep underground, build a fortress-ciry there, then you are the leader of a large exter
Pp eper underground until they find a hospitable spot politics that entails), and you're the general o rf
for their next city. They're the dwarves on their race's m n the march. Over the course of a sir council
important frontier: the one that extends below the {eet ofall meeting, you might declare a crusade against a mind flayer
other dwarve city, hire adventurers to find the lc ammer of Resounding
Type: Fighting (raci ings, ar t rf s having 1
Scale: 11 (mult nal/duch g f
Affiliation Score Criteria: The Winterveins functior
like a “st lan,” so every blood me r dwarf. Th Affiliation
group has a number of nondw depute Score Title: Benefits and Duties
earn affiliation 3 or lower Not affiliated or junior member with no
. ; } benefits.
The Winterveins often send clan members on scouting 4-14 Defender of Wintervein: + n
Wr raiding missions, either in the company of their cl nilack falls azalat ores and eablingkd
allies of other races (such as an adventuring 15-22 Hero of Wintervein: As bonus feats, gain
that earn the most respect among th Weapon Focus (dwarven waraxe) and
s aren't the assaults on goblin forts or mind fl Weapon Focus (dwarven urgrosh). +6 racial

    

of dwarven cor bonus on attack rolls against orcs and

   

    

  

they're the succe
: ' goblinoids. Dodge bonus against giants
derground frontier when they are b
Sees ea ene improves to +6.
wv ful duergar, or other opponent 3-29 Foehammer of Wintervein: +4 racial bonus
on attack rolls agair id goblinoids.
Criterion Affiliation Score Modifier Dodge bonus against giants improves to +8
Character level +1/2 PC's level 30 orhigher Lord of Wintervein: As bonus feats, gain
leric, fighter, or paladin Improved Critical (dwarven waraxe) and
Dwarven defender prestige class +2 Improved Critical (dwarven urgrosh).
Per successful missior 2
Per defense of besieged dwarf citadel +4

Titles, Benefits, and Duties: The Wintervein dwarves
th alche nd

create “ancestral infusions" t

 

are master: nealogy, and they c

   

e the imbiber

    
 

of the fortitude and strength c eir famous forebear
infusions are the mechanism that
delivers your affiliation benefits. ground.

 

 
 

 

 

 

    

fa) Create information (if desir taining
to members, enemies and allies, and secrets o
the affiliar
2) Choose affiliation
categor
3) Choc cale
+) Select the affiliation score criter
ate the titles held by members and
elect the benefit duties thar om:
Choose the power
vailable to the leader « f th
iffiliation
Keep in mind that creating your own affiliat
is a bir lik ar magic item a
icing it; tweaking is sometin

sary. While these rules

  

1 cookbook to combine i

 

make a decent product

room for extra flavor. Ast

 
