desired, and your DM is encouraged to allow for it, so that they
fit your game and campaign world as well as possible,

As discussed, affiliations bring many new aspects to your
game. As you're working through your creation ideas, don't
forget that many of them can be enriched even further if other
people at the table are doing the same with affiliations of their
own. Friendly rivalries between affiliations can provide great
motivation and background for adventure.

CONCEPT AND BACKGROUND

Iris most helpful to devise a general concept for your affili
ation at the outset, Will it openly rule in an area, or will it
act behind the scenes? Are its members, assets, or abilities
clandestine or hidden? Does it have a specific creed or objec-
tive? The answers to these questions help direct your creative
efforts and make the affiliation more coherent and real.

Beyond a general concepr, the extent of your affiliation's
background is entirely up to you. Indeed, the extent of what's
known about your affiliation is as broad as your imagination.
The following topics can be considered when devising your
affiliation. They might be set at the outset. Alternatively,
can move on to the other creation steps after only jotting
down a few notes about your concept. Further details can
be left for the end of the creation process, or for description
and evolution during game sessions.

The example affiliations described earlier in this chapter
make up a varied collection, yet they barely scratch the sur-
face of what sorts of affiliations you can create for yourself.
Each piece of information that can be part of an affiliation's
description is discussed below.

Name: The name of your affiliation could be descriptive of
its interests or concerns, or it could be a “false front” hiding its
true agenda. I could be complex, legalistic, or long-winded,
evincing an effort to impress or awe the general populace
Or it might be short or obscure, requiring a certain level of
inside information to understand its true meaning.

Symbol: Design your affiliation’s symbol (if you want it to
have one), bring it to the table, and place it near your character
sheet whenever affiliations are involved in play.

Motto: Perhaps everyone in your affiliation shares a battle
cry, or perhaps they intone the same blessing before every
sunset. (The example affiliations in this chapter
mottoes, so you can come up with one you like if you want
to use an affiliation “out of the box

Background, Goals, and Dreams: Just as your character
is motivated by his past and driven to his future, so should
your affiliation be. Did it startin the slaughterhouse of Bravik,

you

 

 

 

nO

 

only to become a powerful mercenary company scourging the
hinterlands? Did it once rise to dominate the city’s arcane soci-
ety, only to be shattered by the demons it once commanded?
Does your affiliation want to merge with another affiliation?
Destroy one? Draft the king's niece into its ranks?
Enemies and Allies: You might choose one or two affili-
ations, races, regions, or creature types that your affiliation
cannot abide. Perhaps your affiliation wants to expunge them
from the earth, feels snubbed by them at court, or was almost
rminated by them after a mass immigration from another
continent. In combat, members of the affiliation attack these

 

©

 

enemies preferentially, and in parley, they bait and insulr
them. The opposite applies to those creatures of individuals
you choose as allies. They should be given aid and succor
where possible, and you should expect similar treatment in
return. Some information on how this relationship came
about, what the degree of cooperation is, and how steadfast
the relationship is would be useful as well.

Members; Name some of the other people in your affili-
ation. Identify the leader, his or her subordinates, and the
rivals vying for position within the affiliation. You might
consider, with the DM's permission, co-opting several pre-
viously existing NPCs from the campaign to be members
of your affiliation. Think about how your affiliation treats
ex-members (if it tolerates them at all)

Secrets: The byzantine politics of some affiliarions afford
them ample opportunity to gestate a tangled mass of secrets.
Ifyou like, choose one or two secrets for your affiliation. Share
them with your DM, but only give hints about them within your
party. Then, atan opportune time, unveil the secret. Perhaps your
order is more ancient than anyone guesses, and under another
name it founded the ruined castle you are now exploring—only
your order's motto will activate the magic mouth on the nether
cyst below the throne room, Perhaps you've been hinting at
surprise allies, and when you reach the vampire’s manse, you
tap on the portcullis to summon the beast’s apothecary, who
is actually a spy for your guild,

TYPE

Choose your affiliation’s type; business, cabal, college, druid
circle, fighting company, government, spy ring, temple, thieves’
guild, or tribe. This selection affects the executive powers
available to the affiliation’s leaders.

Some concepts might be difficult to define neatly. A group
of related individuals (tribe) might be engaged in a profitable
enterprise (business) selling illegal goods (thieves guild),
However, for the purpose of executive powers, you'll need to
set one type as the affiliation’s primary focus.

CATEGORY

Decide whether your affiliation is a racial one or a social
one, and include “(racial)" in the Type entry of the affiliation
description if appropriate. (The concept you create could

dictate which category the affiliation belongs in.)

SCALE

Choose your affiliation’s scale in conjunction with your
Dungeon Master. Table 7-1, below, provides guidelines.

As a general rule, the scale of an affiliation is an indica-
tion of how high up the ladder of influence it can rise. For
instance, a scale 12 affiliation could obtain an audience with
the king; a scale 8 affiliation probably has the count’s ear;
a scale 3 affiliation might get a hasty hearing by the local
burgomaster on a slow day.

The exact meaning of scale could vary from affiliation
to affiliation, however. For example, an affiliation does not
necessarily need to be scale 19 to have influence on the Outer
Planes. Take a cabal of scale 6—it has influence throughoura
roughly city-sized area or population. This city might be the

 

 

 

 

  

   

 

 

 

 

 
