  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   

City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of Fire, and the cabal’s
scale might be explained by the fact that it is extremely
secretive and almost unheard by the general population on
its home plane.

You must have the Leadership feat to found an affiliation.
If you do so, it normally begins at scale 1. Campaign circum-
stances might dictate otherwise, however, so you should
consult with your Dungeon Master.

TABLE 7—1: AFFILIATION SCALE

Scale Scope of Influence
1 Neighborhood
2 Neighborhoods
3 City quarter

Examples

Bakery, druid hermit
Crossroads tavern
Small abbey, small
nomadic tribe

Bank, slaughterhouse,
barbarian trading post

4 City quarter

5 City Arena, pirate ship,

githzerai rrakma
6 City City watch, wild elf tree tribe
7 City and outliers Large college, tyrant wizard

in tower, death slaad

commanding a populous

gnoll tribe

Frontier fort, druid sect

Small castle, established

church

Minor nobility, powerful guild

Nobility, established knightly

order, dread pirate fleet

12 Multiregional/kingdom Standing army, orc hordes

led by legendary chieftain

13. Multiregional/kingdom Vast army raised to fight off
and vassal states the tarrasque

14 ~~ Continental/ Centuries-old large kingdom,
seafaring kingdom illithid underground nation

15 Continental/empire — Emperor and his legions,

circle of archmages

Imperial legions with arcane

and divine support

Ancient order of epic-level

knights

Githyanki incursion force

Armies in the Blood War

between demons and devils

Epic-level affiliations.

hero-deities

City/county
Regional/barony

1D 00

10 Regional/march
11 Multiregional/duchy

16 = Multicontinental/
empire

17 Global

18 Astral Plane
19 Multiplanar

20 Cosmos

AFFILIATION SCORE CRITERIA

Affiliations measure a member's value by a number of fac-
tors. Some are baseline: If a character is not of the proper
religion, nationality, race, alignment, class, or other nature,
his affiliation score is irrelevant (absent special dispensation
from the leadership). First, decide if your affiliation enforces
any such prerequisites.

Other than baseline criteria, numerous other aspects of a
character are considered when awarding benefits and status
in a group. For your affiliation, choose up to thirteen of the
criteria listed on Table 7-2.

A social affiliation can (and usually does) have some nega-
tive criteria—characteristics or accomplishments that reduce
a character's affiliation score instead of increasing it. As a
tule of thumb, select one negative criterion for every positive

   

   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
 
   
  
  
 

criterion beyond the fifth one you choose (six positive and
one negative, seven positive and two negative, eight positive
and three negative, or nine positive and four negative)

For the most part, racial affiliations do not have negative
criteria; once you're in a racial affiliation, you have to do
something pretty outrageous to lower your status in the
group—and such lowering is usually accomplished by simply
kicking you out of the group.

Because itis easier to move up in the ranks of a smaller affili-
ation than a larger one, the base modifiers given on Table 7-2
must be adjusted according to the affiliation’s scale. The base
modifiers given are for affiliations with a scale of 1 to 7. For
affiliations of scale 8 to 14, divide the modifiers given by 2. For
affiliations of scale 15 to 20, divide the modifiers given by 4. The
minimum impact of a criterion after modification is 1/2.

 

  

 

TABLE 7-2: AFFILIATION SCORE CRITERIA

Posi Criteria Affiliation Score Modifier
Expertise and power +1/2 character levels
Is a member of a favored race +1
Charisma 13 or higher 4
Base attack bonus of +5 or higher +
Base attack bonus of +10 or higher +2
5 or more ranks in an appropriate skill +1
10 or more ranks in an appropriate skill 42
Has a feat that is significant to the affiliation +1
Can cast arcane or divine spells +
Can cast 3rd- to 4th-level spells +2
Can cast Sth- or higher-level spells 3
Has/does not have a familiar +2
Member of a prestige class important to

the affiliation +2

Possesses a magic item significant

to the affiliation +1/10,000 gp value

Wealth +1/20,000 gp value
Landowner +2
Noble title +2
Lives in a favored region +1
Parents or siblings in the affiliation +2
Marries into a family whose head is an

affiliation member +2
Recruits a new member into the affiliation *
Spends ten or more years in the affiliation +2
In the thrall of a member of the affiliation 42
Recommendation of a member who has an

affiliation score of 21 or higher +2
Saves the life of a member who has an

affiliation score of 21 or higher 43
Adventures with a member of the affiliation +1
Completes a mission assigned by the affiliation +2
Makes a discovery important to the affiliation +2
Humiliates an enemy of the affiliation +2

Defeats a violent enemy of the affiliation in combat

(the foe's CR must be equal to or or greater

than the character's level) +1/4 the creature's CR
Destroys an artifact anathema to the affiliation +4
Razes a stronghold of one of the affiliation’s enemies +8
Makes a pilgrimage or journey important

to the affiliation +2
Donates money or magic items to the affiliation (a
maximum per year might be set, after which donations
accrue no additional bonus) +1/1,000 gp donated
