   
  
   
  
  
 

  
       

Duties (affiliation score 21 or higher, or 15 or higher for
racial affiliations)

Good judgment—make DC 20 Appraise check once per
month; failure indicates loss of 200 gp and affiliation
score reduced by 1

Must recruit one new member per month or reduce
affiliation score by 1

Must defeat a CR 9 creature in single combat

Must donate 10% of treasure to affiliation

Duties (affiliation score 30 or higher)

Assassination attempts—if you fail to uncover a plot each
month with a DC 30 Gather Information check, then you
must face a CR 12 assassin (can be simplified: make DC
15 Fort save or die)

Great judgment—make DC 20 Appraise check once per
month; failure indicates affiliation loses 1 capital

Must defeat a CR 13 creature in single combat

Mutiny—succeed on DC 15 Diplomacy check once per month
or face mob/challenger (EL. 12)

EXECUTIVE POWERS

Affiliation leaders wield executive powers to accomplish
many tasks ona grand scale. Generally, a leader must have an
affiliation score of 30 or higher in order to gain the authority
necessary to exercise these powers.

Choose three executive powers for your affiliation from
among those described below. The executive power descrip-
tions limit certain powers to certain affiliation types. This
was done to balance our the value of the various types. You are
free to ignore those restrictions if your campaign or storyline
dictates otherwise.

Some of the abilities encompassed by executive powers are
only used if you are playing with dynamic affiliations (using
the rules for capital, violence checks, espionage checks, and
negotiation checks)

Assassinate: Your affiliation can retain the services of an
assassin (or send one of its own). The level of the assassin is
equal to 1/2 the affiliation’s scale (minimum 1; maximum 10
+ 1/2 its scale). Because it takes time to prepare a strike, an
assassin can be assigned one mission each three months, You
could resolve the results of an assassin strike using normal
D&D rules, or you might decide to resolve things “offstage
In the latter case, make an opposed espionage check against
the victim's affiliation (or against the victim's Spot check, if

 

he has no affiliation). If you succeed, the assassin penetrates
your target's counterinfiltration measures and strikes. The
victim must succeed on a Fortitude save against the normal
DC for the assassin’s death attack or perish.

Cabals, druid circles, governments, spy rings, temples, and
thieves’ guilds can retain assassins

Beatify: The deeds of a saint are to those of an ordinary
man as the clouds are to the earth. Serene, high, and aloof,
the saints move through our world, and yet seem not wholly
apart of it. Your affiliation has the power to declare someone
a potential saint; someone who is beatified gains the title
Blessed or Hallowed. A living creature who is beatified gains
a+2 sacred bonus on Bluff, Diplomacy, and Intimidate checks
when dealing with other members of her faith. When she
casts a cure spell on a member of her own faith, she adds her

 

  

 

   

    
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
 

Wisdom bonus to the amount cured (maximum bonus equal
to the spell’s level).

Druid circles and temples can beatify a creature.

Craft: Hammers ring on anvils, saws hum through wood,
and kraken-ink quills scratch on half-petrified calf vellum
at your affiliation’s headquarters. Your affiliation is adept
at producing valuable items. It can craft any masterwork
item or magic item from the Dungeon Master's Guide with a
market price of up to 2,000 « the affiliation’s scale. This item
belongs to the affiliation, but you can borrow it according
to the benefits of your title in the affiliation description
Mobilizing the affiliation in this way is a big job; to do so
requires either an expenditure of 1 capital or a successful
negotiation check (DC 15 +1 per 2,000 gp value of the item
to bargain with supply and labor vendors. The process of
crafting is not quick; you must wait 1-2 months to receive
the item, During this time your affiliation is free to engage
in other actions.

Businesses, cabals, druid circles, colleges, temples, and
tribes can craft items

Crusade: Your affiliation can declare a crusade. You des-
ignate an enemy and attempt a Diplomacy check (DC 20 +
le of target affiliation, or DC 20 + level of target creature).
If you succeed, your followers martial their resources and
travel any distance to attack the offending blasphemer. If the
target isan affiliation, make opposing violence checks. If your
affiliation is successful, an opposing affiliation loses 1 capital.
If the target is an individual, he must make a Fortitude save
(DC equal to your violence check result). If the target fails,
he perishes under your affiliation’s righteous onslaught.

If you wronged an enemy affiliation by prying out the ruby
eyes of its sacred idol, selling the head of its demon guardian
at auction, or rescuing a screaming sacrifice from its altar,
your rival might retaliate by targeting your character with
an unholy crusade. Your DM might set aside the normal
Fortitude save and choose to play out an encounter. In that
case, you will be set upon by creatures appropriate to the
rival affiliation, with an EL equal to 10 + your opponent's
violence bonus.

Each month that it crusades, an affiliation loses 2 capital
due to the cost of the ongoing operations.

Fighting companies, temples, and tribes can crusade. A
crusade can target an individual, business, college, fighting
company, government, temple, or tribe. Spy rings, druid
circles, cabals, and thieves’ guilds are too elusive for such
punishment.

Excommunicate: You might instruct your affiliation
to shun an individual or an entire group. No cleric of your
affiliation will help an excommunicated creature or a member
of an excommunicated affiliation. If the excommunicated
creature fails a Will save (DC 10+ the scale of your affilia-
tion), your edict is so strong that for a period of 1 year, the
subject cannot benefit from a divine spell cast by anyone
with an alignment descriptor in common with those of your
church. For example, ifa lawful good church of Heironeous
excommunicates a creature and it fails its save, the creature
cannot benefit from divine spel
lawful or good

 

 

 

    

 

rom a caster who is either
