Druid circles, temples, and tribes can excommunicate
individuals.

Gift: Your affiliation might bestow a valuable gift when
it matters most. After receiving a gift, the mercenary
company sends extra troops, the temple sends its staff of life
along with the bishop, and the thieves guild doesn't pick-
pocket your members on the way back from the tavern.
When your affiliation sends a gift to someone, you or an
agent of your affiliation receives a +4 competence bonus
on your next Diplomacy check involving the recipient
of the gift.

Alternatively, when your affiliation sends a gift to an
appropriate organization, it secures a +2 competence bonus
on its next violence, espionage, or negotiation check, provided
the attempt is undertaken within 2 months of the gift. For
example, a gift to a fighting company could secure a bonus
on your next violence check.

Businesses, colleges, governments, and temples can
send gifts.

Harvest: The wisdom or savvy of your affiliation's leader
allows your members to work the land to your advantage,
coaxing crops from grudging soil or teasing out precious
metals from jealous rock, When your affiliation uses the
Haryest power, make a DC 20 Appraise check. If your result
is between 21 and 30, each member of the affiliation receives
gold (your share is 50 gp x the affiliation’s scale), and the affi
ation itself enjoys a +1 circumstance bonus on all violence,
espionage, and negotiation checks for the next 2 months. If
your result was over 30, you can choose the above benefits,
or your affiliation can gain 1 capital,

Businesses and tribes can harvest.

Holiday: Your affiliation has the power to declare holidays.
These holidays can be perennial (Angels Day, Wyrm Waking
Day, Feast of the Chapeaux of St. Cuthbert) or one-day events
marking grand occasions (the dauphin’s wedding day, the
triumph over Snurre and the hill giants, the arrival of the
Duke of Brass's ambassador). Any citizen ina land celebrating
the holiday, and any member of an affiliation observing the
holiday, gains a +1 morale bonus on all attacks, saves, and
skill checks during the day. No more than one holiday per
month can be declared.

Druid circles, governments, and temples can designate
holidays.

 

Inquisition; With the ringing of the steeple bells, your
holy organization declares a hunt for blasphemers. Designate
one target affiliation. Throughout your area of influence, that
affiliation falls under the shadow of suspicion.

On an individual level, members of the targeted affili-
ation are harassed by dedicated inquisitors. For each day
they spend in the lands of the inquisition, they must suc-
ceed on a Fortitude save (DC 10 + your affiliation's scale)
or be fatigued.

On an affiliation level, suspected groups are forced to
curtail some activities and conceal others. The target of an
inguisition must succeed on an opposed espionage check or
be unable to use any executive power requiring a violence or
negotiation check during the next month,

Maintaining an inquisition is expensive and interferes
with day-to-day activities. Each month when you conduct
an inquisition, you must succeed on an opposed negotiation
check with the local government or lose 2 capital

Druid circles and temples can press an inquisition. Individ-
uals, businesses, colleges, fighting companies, governments,
temples, and tribes can be targeted. Cabals, druid circles, spy
rings, and thieves’ guilds are too elusive for persecution.

Law: Your affiliation can write and enforce law through-
out its domain, You might outlaw arcane or divine casting,
concealed weapons, magic items, gnomes, or anything else
you desire, If an object or practice is outlawed, anyone
caught using it, engaging it, or being it is fined orjailed, as
you decide. Penalties beyond a fine of 100 gp x your scale
are rare,

An individual can attempt a Disguise check (DC equal
to your espionage check result) to engage in an outlawed
practice with impunity. If you outlaw an affiliation, it goes
underground and takes a -2 penalty on all checks until
it relocates or the ban is lifted. A banned affiliation has a
maximum capital of 1.5 x its scale, and it is exterminated if
its capital reaches 0.

Particularly outrageous laws could require your affilia-
tion to present the plan persuasively to your countrymen;
a Diplomacy check (DC 20 + scale) is required to accom-
plish this.

Your affiliation can also make a law requiring certain tasks
of citizens in your area, [fall citizens are required to undergo
martial training, each adult militia memberin your lands gains

 

 

 

 

EXCEPTIONS TO THE RULES

Hf your concept for a new affiliation doesn't mesh neatly with the
guidelines for creating your own affiliation, don't let the guidelines
keep you from doing what you want (within reason, of course).

In particular, several of the affiliations presented earlier in this
chapter don't rigidly follow the guidelines concerning executive
powers, so they can serve as examples of exceptions to the gen-
eral rules.

The Caravan of Shadows is a business that has the executive
powers pariah and shadow war, both of which are not normally
available to businesses—but they work well in the context of this
affiliation's concept.

The Chalice is a fighting company that has the inquisition
executive power—a justifiable exception for a group of holy
crusaders

Dragon Island is a government affiliation that has four
executive powers rather than the usual three, reflecting the
overall power not only of the affiliation but of its highest-
ranking members.

 

The leaders of the Wintervein Dwarves have access to the
craft executive power, which is not normally available to a fight-
ing company—but for a fighting company of dwarves, it makes
perfect sense.

 

 
