   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

   
   
   
  
  
  
      

a +1 competence bonus on attack rolls, and your government
asa whole gains a +1 competence bonus on violence checks.
If you require all citizens to be literate, local civil servants
are recruited from a more knowledgeable populace and your
government gains a +1 competence bonus on negotiation
checks. If you require all citizens to participate in a state
religion ora state industry, every citizen gains at least 1 rank
in Knowledge (religion) or Profession (relevant industry),
anda +1 competence bonus on checks made using that skill.
If you raise taxes to an extraordinary level, you have a 25%
chance of gaining 1 capital each month, Other requirements
and benefits are possible; consult with your Dungeon Master.
Requirements demand a citizen's time and energy, however,
and only one such requirement can be in place at a time
(establishing a new requirement counts as the affiliation's
use of executive power for that month). Requirements are
also oppressive—your affiliation’s leader must make a DC
30 Diplomacy check or reduce his affiliation score by 1 each
month that the requirements are in place.

Normally, only governments can set laws. [f there is no
government ina region, druid circles or temples might enforce
scripture as law.

Mint: Your affiliation stamps its leader's face on coins and
issues them as currency. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus
on Intimidate and Diplomacy checks with money-using
creatures in lands where the coins circulate. The awe inspired
by such a powerful act might shake your foes’ resolve; anyone
who confronts you in battle and has used your coins spends
the first round of combat shaken (no save). You also receive
free meals and free stays in inns or roadside houses with a
DC 5 Diplomacy check.

Governments can mint coins, and if the government allows
it, businesses can do so as well.

 

 

 

 

Pariah: Through rumor, propaganda, forgeries, and lies,
you portray an individual as anathema to his affiliation. You
spread tales of priests slaughtering innocents, of businessmen
squandering riches on games of knucklebones, of soldiers
plotting sedition. This causes the individual to be outcast
from his affiliation. The target's affiliation score drops to
0 temporarily, during which time he has no access toany
affiliation benefits, funds, items, or abilities,

Your affiliation must succeed on an espionage check or
negotiation check opposed by the individual's Diplomacy
check to make the rumors stick. If the individual exercises
executive power within his affiliation, he can add his guild’s
negotiation bonus on his Diplomacy check as a compe-
tence bonus.

Each month, the pariah can attempt to clear his name by
making the same opposed check. When he succeeds, the
record is finally set straight, and the sheep-faced members
of his affiliation welcome him back with his full affiliation
score restored. A pariah who has cleared his name cannot
be again outcast from his guild with the pariah power for 1
year plus 1d12 months,

Cabals, spy rings, and thieves guilds can declare a member
to bea pariah.

Plague: Filth fever, centipede swarms, corn blight, a rain
of shocker lizards—all these are examples of plague. When

 
 

    

your affiliation plagues a land or another affiliation, each

affected person must make a Will save (DC equal to your
violence check result) each day of the month. Failure imposes
a—t penalty on all saving throws for thar day. Any leader
of a plagued affiliation must make a Diplomacy check (DC
equal to your violence check result) with the members of
his affiliation any time he wants to use an executive power,
failure means that he is powerless in the face of the plague
and his affiliation score decreases by 1.

Druid circles, temples, and tribes can bring a plague.
Businesses, colleges, druid circles, fighting companies, overn-
ments, temples, and tribes can be targeted by a plague. Cabals,
spy rings, and thieves’ guild are too small and too diffuse to
be affected by a plague.

Plunder: Treasure is the goal, and speed is the means.
When your affiliation plunders an area, you are not attempt-
ing to damage it permanently only to add to your own wealth,
When your affiliation launches a plundering attack, make
an opposed violence check. If successful, you gain gold and
gems; your share of the loot is 100 gp x your affiliation score,
The enemy hasa 1 in 6 chance of losing 1 capital as a result of
your plundering; your affiliation has a separate 1 in 6 chance
of gaining enough treasure to increase its capital by 1

Fighting companies, governments, spy rings, thieves' guilds,
and tribes can plunder, Only businesses, colleges, govern-
ments, and temples can be plundered.

Raid: A raiding party seeks to deal as much damage as

ssible and escape unscathed. Make an opposed violence
check with the target affiliation. If your check is successful,
the opposition suffers the loss of 1 capital. [f unsuccessful,
your raiding party has been trapped in the enemy's territory.
Make opposed espionage or negotiation checks to either
sneak or talk your way home. Failure indicates that the raid-
ing party perishes and your affiliation loses 1 capital.

Cabals, druid circles, fighting companies, governments,
spy rings, thieves’ guilds, and tribes can stage raids,

Research: Gathering informarion is the raison d'etre for
spy rings and colleges, bur it is useful for other affiliations
as well. When your affiliation conducts research, you can
make an arcane discovery or unearth information about
your enemies.

Your affiliation can research any arcane spell. The leader
must pay the market price of a scroll of that spell in seed
money for the research, In td+ months, your affiliation
produces a scroll of the researched spell.

Your group can also research opponents. Against any
NPC who has been researched, you and other members of
your affiliation gain a +1 insight bonus on attack rolls in the
first round of combat (after that, the NPC realizes you ar
anticipating his moves and switches tactics),

Finally, research can be conducted on an enemy affiliation
Your group gains a +2 insight bonus on its next violence,
espionage, or negotiation check against that affiliation

Cabals, colleges, and spy rings can conduct research,

Shadow War: Your affiliation stalks the alleys, the under-
passes, the rooftops, and the dark copses on the edges of country
lanes. From concealment you strike, and to concealment
you return. When engaged in a shadow war, your affiliation

 

 

 

 

 

  
