makes an opposed espionage check against your target. If
your check fails, your target exposes your affiliation before
itcan strike, and your affiliation takes a—2 penalty on nego-
tiation checks for the next month. If your check succeeds,
your shadow strike is true. If your successful check result
was 10 or lower, your enemy affiiation’s internal structure
is disrupted, and it takes a—2 penalty on violence, espionage,
and negotiation checks for the next month, If your success-
ful check result was berween 11 and 20, the opposition’s
command and control structure is paralyzed, preventing
any affiliation member from using any benefits for the next
month, If your successful check result was higher than 20,
your opponent loses 1 capital

Cabals, druid circles, spy rings, and thieves’ guilds can
start a shadow war.

Terrorize: Skull flags on the horizon, ominous drums
along the mountains, illusions cast on pillows that cackle
suddenly to life and screech out bloody warnings when the
target lies down to bed—all these are techniques used by
your affiliation to strike terror in the hearts of individuals
and other groups.

Your affiliation can speak eloquently to the victim, threat-
ening violence, or it can swing forthe kneecaps and actually
provide the violence. A terrorized individual must make two
Will saves (DC equal to your violence or negotiation check
result). 1f she succeeds on both, there is no effect. If she fails
one, for the next month she is shaken in the first round of
combat when fighting a member of your affiliation. Ifshe fails
both, for the next month, she is frightened of any member of
your affiliation and flees at the first opportunity.

Your group can also attempt to terrorize an enemy affilia-
tion. To do so, make an opposed negotiation or violence check
(depending on how you would like to deliver the threat). If
your affiliation wins, the opposing affiliation cannot use any
executive powers during the next month,

Even the worst atrocities become commonplace if repeated
too often, An individual or affiliation cannot be targeted for
‘errorism more than one month out of every four.

If your affiliation succeeds on an opposed espionage check
pefore terrorizing another affiliation, the victim does not
know who terrorized it.

Cabals, druid circles, fighting companies, governments, spy
sings, thieves guilds, and tribes can terrorize. Cabals, druid
circles, spy rings, and thieves guilds cannot be terrorized,

Trade: Commerce is the life blood of business, and it can
provide a much-needed infusion of capital for other affilia-
tions as well, When your group trades, choose one friendly
affiliation, Each organization gains 1 capital. Make opposed
negotiation checks; whoever wins has a 1 in 6 chance of
gaining 1 additional capital,

Alternatively, your affiliation's trade connections can
help an individual entrepreneur. If your affiliation’s trad-
ing facilities are put at the disposal of an individual, he
gains a +4 competence bonus on Appraise checks and a +2
competence bonus on any Diplomacy checks that involve
trade for 1 month.

Lastly, a trading network can provide rumors of exotic
items, Make a DC 20 negotiation check. If it succeeds, aseller

has been located who possesses a wondrous item determined
randomly from those described in the Dungeon Master's Guide
(50% chance fora minor item, 30% chance for a medium item,
20% chance for a major item; roll on Table 7-27, 7-28, or 7-29
as appropriate). Because of your trading connections, you
have a percentage discount equal to your affiliation’s scale
should you purchase the item. For example, if you belong
to an affiliation with a scale of 12, you would receive a 12%
discount on the purchase.

Only businesses and colleges can instigate trades, bur
any other type of affiliation can be the other partner in
a transaction,

War: Fires sweep the rooftops, and the plains shake under
the boots of marching troops. War means many different
things depending on your campaign, but two results are
constant. First, throughout your affiliation's sphere of influ-
ence, prices double. This price increase affects everything
from adventuring equipment such as 10-foot poles and scrolls
of lesser restoration to mundane items such as livestock and
food. Ir applies both to purchases and to crafting expenses,
including item creation costs.

Second, whenever a PC attempts to contact an NPC who
resides in the area ravaged by war, the NPC must make a DC
{2 Fortitude save, Failure means the NPC has perished in
the war, Your DM might make this check once per month
for other important NPCs she deems at risk, regardless of
whether anyone attempts to contact them.

Every month that your affiliation is ar war, the war effort
decreases its capital and its enemy’s capital by 1, Additionally,
make opposed violence checks, The loser suffers an additional
loss of 0-2 capital (roll 1d6; 1-2 = 0, 3-4 = 1, S~6 = 2).

Your DM might have an NPC-controlled affiliation declare
war. If two governments exist in the same territory, they
must go to war until one perishes (even if war is not an
executive power possessed chosen by either government). A
wise affiliation keeps its warchest well stocked with ingots;
poor affiliations are ripe targets for conquest.

Fighting companies, governments, and tribes can start a
war, War can be waged against a college, fighting company,
government, temple, or tribe. Cabals, druid circles, spy rings,
and thieves guilds are too elusive. Businesses are mobile
enough to avoid war, bur can be outlawed by governments. If
a business is outlawed, however, it simply turns to the black
market (see the law executive power),

    

The players at the table include Leigh (Mialee the wizard),
Wendy (Lidda the rogue), William (Regdar the fighter), and
Matt (Jozan the cleric). Jody is the Dungeon Master.

William (Regdar): A 1! I leap back out of the way.

Wendy (Lidda): | was trying to open the—

Jody (DM): Lidda trips the wire and stone rumbles overhead.
The crepuscular light fades. When you look up, you can
see by Regdar's torch thar a stone disk has rotated into
place over the exit, trapping you at the bottom of this
raptor-pharaoh shaft.

 
