  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
   

 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
    

Matt (Jozan): How are we going to get back out? Mialee, what
about Hanali’s Circle?

Leigh (Mialee): No, don't you remember the shadow war with
the Vecna cabal? They attacked in Avrillet last month and
paralyzed a lot of our activities. So, no new word of recall
charms for awhile. We really do need to go after the One
and the Five once we get out of here.

Wendy (Lidda): Right, Tall and Slender, your friends might
be flinging acid arrows in the alleys up north, but my
guild mates are right here guarding the codex. I bet they
can let us out.

Lidda climbs to the top of the shaft and hangs from two pitons
and a krenshar-hide saddle strap.

Wendy (Lidda): I shout for my guild mates to help while I
am trying to pick the lock.

Jody (DM): It's unpickable from this side. In fact, there is no
lock. However (makes a Listen check for Lidda}, you do
hear the sounds of shouts, then ringing steel on steel and
the whoosh of fireballs.

William (Regdar): Blood of the emperor! It must be the
Reviled vanguard. On open ground, Can your rogues
take them?

Wendy (Lidda): I don't know

Jody (DM): You specifically brought them for this mission, so
T'm going torule that they're not surprised by the Reviled.
even though the light adapted trogs belly-crawled through
the sand from the direction of the sunset. Do you have
individual stats for your guild force? [Lidda shakes her
head.] Then give me a violence check.

Wendy (Lidda): I rolled a 14 and add my guild’s +2 violence
bonus. 16!

Jody rolls d20 adds the Reviled affiliation's violence bonus.

Jody (DM): 15. The Violet Ghosts win by one. A single surviv-
ing guild mate arm-drags himself through the reeking,
bloodied sand to the top of the shaft. He scratches at the
stone, and after a great deal of encouragement from you,
he finally hits the mechanism to tilt the plug-disc. The
stars are out by now, and the stench of the Reviled comes
through the opened gap.

Later, after the party has set up watches;

Leigh (Mialee): If there's nothing going on during my
watch, I'm going to read the codex for any clue on which
shaft is lathra’s tomb, since our first guess obviously
wasn't right.

Jody (DM): The stiff pages are filled with religious ico-
nography and veiled allusions. Give me a Knowledge
(religion) check.

Leigh rolls d20 and adds her Knowledge (religion) skill
modifier plus another 1 because religious knowledge has
permeated her homeland, the territories around Castle
Mairo, ever since the baron made it the law for all citizens
to participate in the Pelorite religion.

Leigh (Mialee): Let's see, with modifiers, I rolled a 15

Jody (DM): Just made it!

Leigh (Mialee): Heh. Jozan, I might grumble, but apparently
the mandatory worship of Pelor has its uses!

Jody (DM): You learn that the shafts of the raptor-pharaohs

are laid out according to dynasty, and lathra’s shaft

 

    

should be the one closest to where the sun sets on Wyrm

Waking Day.

The next day, the party descends into the correct tomb.

Jody (DM): Jozan's boots bang down on the sandstone tomb
and puff up a cloud of dust. All right, everybody that has
been living in Castle Mairo, this is the start of the day's
activities, so let’s see the Will saves. These are to avoid
the effects of the rain of shocker lizards that the Reviled
plagued you with last new moon. They rolled a 14 on their
violence check, so that's the DC

Matt (Jozan): 17. Pelor has no respect for the Reviled.

William (Regdar): 13. Gah! ~1 to all my saves today,

Leigh (Mialee) 21, 1 scoff at the darkness,

Jody (DM): Okay, as you're cursing the ape-frogs, Regdar, you
become aware of a scurrying in the dust. A small spider
is running out of the passage to the north, zipping past
Jozan’s feet.

Matt (Jozan): I squash the nasty thing with my mace!

Jody chuckles.

Jody (DM): It offers no resistance. Both you and Regdar
hear something in the passageway behind the spider. Sud-
denly you see what the spider was running from—three
troglodyte degenerates galloping on all fours straight
toward you.

William (Regdar): Troglodytes! I charge and yell, “For
Herridek!”

Jody (DM): A bloody battle brews, it would seem. Jozan,
I need an espionage check for the Sun Fane. There are
Reviled agents within; if you fail, they have infiltrated
your hierarchy and knew thar you were coming. In that
case, they will have sent at least a few more tomb denizens
to your little welcome party.

Matt (Jozan): Whoa. Espionage is not the Sun Fane's strong
suit.

Wendy (Lidda); Can the Violet Ghosts assist?

Jody (DM): Sure, make an espionage check, DC 10. If you
succeed, you add a +2 bonus on the Sun Fane's check.

Wendy rolls d20 and adds her affiliation's espionage bonus.

Wendy (Lidda): 23, no problem.

Marr rolls d20 and adds his affiliation’s espionage bonus plus
2 for Wendy's help.

Matt (Jozan); Only an 11. Ouch!

Jody rolls d20 and adds the Reviled's espionage bonus.

Jody (DM): 16, The Reviled spies in the Sun Fane have
compromised your agents and learned their plans. There
are two additional carrion crawlers here to welcome you.

I could have done this a while ago, of course, but I wanted
you tosee the rolls and have an opportunity to roll for your
own affiliation.

Jody picks up two carrion crawler miniatures,

Matt (Jozan): Remind me to ask you about an inquisition
when we get back! There are spies in the fort!

Jody (DM): The degenerates leap upon you, their familiar
stench closing around your lungs like a dragon's claw. You
can hear the wet sucking sounds of the crawlers’ footpads
as they blindly feel their way down the walls and ceiling
of the passageway behind the troglodytes. It's that time,
everyone—roll for initiative!
