 

LIN, Ms

he DuséeoNs & Dextons game offers a great
deal of flexibility in Character creation and
t, When you make a€haracter, you
can choose any race or ch,
from a wide variety of feats, and buy ranks in
any skills you wish. Once you've made these
decisions, however, they canriot be changed: Most of the
time those early decisions work out fine, but sometimes

 

 
 

adyancemen

 
 

     

s combination, select

 

you might regret your previous choices. Maybe you didn't
fully understand the ramifications of the choice you made
Or soaybe-yousconstirugted a character axotind a great
concept, but in play, the particular set of circumstances
that would let your character shine never cropped up
And even if you built your character to perfection, each
new supplement presents new classes, feats, spells, and
special abilities; many of which might better serve the
needs of your character or the campaign than those you
previously selected.

Irs true that part of the D&D game's challenge is
making smartchoicesin creating or advancing your char-
acter. But a DM who forces someone to play a cha
he doesn't find enjoyable isn’t making the game fun for
that player or the others at the table. In such a situation,
the player usually either throws away the character and
rolls up a new one, or quits the game. If your campaign
values character continuity (as many campaigns do), nei-
ther of those outcomes is especially attractive. Why force

ter

 

   

    

 

    
   

Mike tothrawawaythe elf fighter he's been playing for
three months just becatise he made a couple of bad fear
when allowing ltim to change those choices
would be so much better, for the storyline? If Mialee
has been an integral part of the campaign since Day
1 but has regretted being an elf since Day 2, wouldn't
it be better to let her become the halfling she would

      
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

prefer to be by undergoing a dramatic transformation
at the Necrotic Cradle (see page 203) than to abruptly
replace her with Liamee the halfling wizard? The fact
thar Liamee the halfling coincidentally has the same
1s, feats, skill ranks, and familiar as Mialee the
f did but has no connection to the campaign or
the restof the party is stretching credulity perhaps

a bit too far

 
 

This chapter presents rules for revising various
aspects of your character during play, With this
system, you can modify elements of your character
to better fir your vision of who your character should
be—both to meet the needs of the party and to face
the threats presented during the course of an entire
campaign. Though character revision does allow
you to “rewrite” certain elements of your charac-
ter, the rules presented here ensure that the changes
remain within reason and.do not upset the story that
has already been created by each character's deeds in
the campaign

 (H9OIa MaLdVHD

   

—
©
er
