  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The two methods of character revision described below
are retraining and rebuilding. Each description defines the
scope of the allowed revisions and includes clear guidelines
on how to adjudicate the changes.

Retraining involves small-scale changes to your charac-
ter, such as reallocation of feat slots and skill ranks. Such
changes are relatively simple to apply, and they don't usually
lead to dramatic changes in the character's capabilities or
party role

Rebuilding, on the other hand, encompasses much broader
alterations to your character's identity—up to and including
such cornerstones of identity as class and race, For that reason,
rebuilding can be achieved only by completing specific
DM-chosen quests. Since such missions typically center on
visiting some legendary location or overcoming a tremendous
challenge, they should always be completed in cooperation
with your DM so that they can be woven into the storyline
of the campaign.

For players and DMs who are accustomed to treating
character creation and advancement decisions as perma-
nent, the idea of character revision can seem strange or
daunting—and some might even think of it as a form
of cheating. Such reactions are natural, but if you think
about it, normal people “revise” their abilities all the time.
Skills you learn early in life are forgotten as new talents
supplant them. For example, a foreign language mastered
in high school might be virtually forgotten only a few
years later from disuse. Likewise, a college student might
change her major halfway through her junior year, or an
unexpected job transfer or layoff could result in.a new posi-
tion in a totally different field, requiring quick mastery of
new skills. Viewed from that perspective, allowing D&D
characters similar opportunities to reinvent themselves
seems perfectly reasonable.

Maybe your group already uses some form of character
revision, such as a house rule, or even a reliance on ad
hoe decision-making by the DM, If your method works
for your group, don't let this chapter stop you from play-
ing the game your way, However, if you're looking for a
coherent system that balances fun and playability with
story and believability, this chaprer might be just what
the healer ordered

After your character goes through the retraining or rebuild-
ing process, you might notice that he doesn't quite match
the specs of a similar character built up to the same level
by the normal method. Maybe his skill points don't add up
quite right, or his hit poinrs are off a bit from the expected
value. Bur the small variations that crop up in this process
don't significantly impact play balance, and writing rules to
eliminate them would complicate the process without really
improving the quality of your game.

So if you'd like to change some aspect of your character,
give the character revision rulesa try, You'll be happier with
your character in the long run and, more important, you'll
have more fun playing the game

 

 

 

 

 

   

Taste 8-1:

  

RETRAINING

The most basic level of character revision is retraining—that
is, adjusting a decision you made earlier in your character's
career by selecting a different legal option. This technique
represents the character's practicing new talents in lieu of
honing older ones. In a way, the process is similar to attain-
inga new level. In keeping with that concept, the retraining
option can be chosen only during level advancement.

Six different character aspects (see Table 81) can be
changed through retraining, Each time your character attains
anew level, you can select one (and only one) of these options.
For instance, you can't change a feat selection and your spells
known at the same level. Since these options represent two.
different sessions of retraining, they must occur at different
levels,

‘The decision to retrain must be implemented before any
benefits of the newly attained level are applied, For example,
if a 10th-level rogue wants to trade her improved evasion
class feature for the opportunist class feature, she can do so
immediately upon attaining 11th level, before she gains any
of the benefits for chat level (such as additional hit points,
skill points, and so on).

  

  

ETRAINING OPTIONS
Character Aspect Effect
Class feature Exchange one class feature option for

another
Feat Exchange one feat for another for which
you qualify
Language Exchange one language for another
Skill Trade ranks between two skills
Spell Exchange one spell known for another

Substitution level Trade a class level for a substitution
level

CLASS FEATURE RETRAINING

Some class features offer two or more different options, such
as the choice of combat style a ranger must make at 2nd level.
Class feature retraining allows you to swap out one such
option for another. Maybe your ranger would prefer to be an
archer instead of a melee fighter, or your cleric of Heironeous
feels that the War domain would be a better option than the
Law domain. The character remains basically the same, since
his class levels haven't changed, but he's now highlighting a
different aspect of his class

 

The Process

Change one class feature option to another legal one. The new
option must represent a choice that you could have made at
the same level as you made the original choice. Also, the new
choice can't make any of your later choices illegal—though
it might automatically change class features acquired later if
they are based on the initial choice.

Class features from the Player's Handbook that are subject
to change in this manner are given on Table 8-2. Chapter 2
of this book provides class feature options for a variety of
additional classes.

 
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
