Taste 8-2: CLass FEATURE RETRAINING OPTIONS

Class Option

Cleric* Choice of domains (each domain
counts as @ separate choice)
Choice to turn or to rebuke undead
(can be changed only if deity allows it)
Choice of animal companion
Choice of bonus feat

Neutral cleric

Druid or ranger
Fighter, monk,

or wizard

Ranger Choice of combat style

Rogue Choice of special ability
Sorcerer or wizard Choice of familiar

Wizard** Choice of school specialization and

prohibited schools
*A cleric's choice of deity can't be changed by class feature
retraining. See the Divine Conversion sidebar for details on
how to accomplish this change
**$chool specialization and prohibited schools are treated
asa single class feature. Thus, a character could change
one, two, or even all three choices at the same time.

Example: Upon gaining a new level, a ranger could
change the combat style class feature he gained at 2nd level
from two-weapon fighting to archery, Thereafter, he would
be treated as if he had the Rapid Shot feat instead of the
Two-Weapon Fighting feat, If he had at least six levels of
ranger before making this change, he would exchange both
the Two-Weapon Fighting feat (gained at 2nd level) and the
Improved Two-Weapon Fighting feat (gained at 6th level)
for the appropriate archery feats, since both of these features
are derived from the choice made at 2nd level. However, the
ranger couldn't make this change if he had selected the Two-
Weapon Defense feat in the interim, since losing Two-Weapon
Fighting means he would no longer meet the prerequisites
for thar feat

Example: Upon gaining a new level, a necromancer
could change her school specialization to evocation, thus
becoming an evoker. At the same time, she could also choose
to change her prohibited schools from conjuration and illu-
sion to abjuration and transmutation. Doing so would cause
her to lose access to all spells from the newly designated
prohibited schools. Even if her spellbook contains one or

 

more such spells, she would lose the ability to prepare and
cast them.

Example: Upon gaining a new level, a wizard could choose
to specialize in the enchantment school, thereby becoming
an enchanter. Arthe same time, she would have to select two
prohibited schools, as normal for a specialist wizard.

Example: Upon gaining a new level, a conjurer could
choose to become a wizard. By doing so, she would lose the
benefits of specialization. But since she would also lose her
prohibited schools, she could then learn spells from those
schools as normal.

FEAT RETRAINING

Sometimes a feat choice looks great on paper, but it just
doesn't work for your character in practice, Maybe an early
feat choice reflected the character's personality and style,
bura little experience changed his outlook. For instance,
you might have selected Improved Initiative for your 1st-
level character because you pictured him as ambitious and
alittle reckless, Bur after falling victim toa wight's touch
because he just couldn't wait until the cleric turned the
undead, he decides it's better to use a little more care in
combat, causing you to regret your early feat choice. New
supplements, with their wealth of exciting feat options,
also provide plenty of reasons to reconsider your earlier
feat selections.

 

 

The Process
You can exchange one of the feats you previously selected
for another feat, If the new feat has prerequisites, not only
must your character meet them in his current state, but you
must also be able to show that he met them at the time you
chose the previous feat.

Example: A 4th-level fighter/tst-level rogue couldn't trade
the Mobility feat he chose at 3rd level for Improved Critical
because he doesn't currently meet a prerequisite for the latter
feat (base attack bonus +6). He also couldn't trade that Mobil-
ity feat for Weapon Specialization, even though he currently
meets the prerequisite (fighter level 4th), because he could
not have done so as a 3rd-level character.

 
 

 

 

DIVINE CONVERSION

As noted in the Player's Handbook, a cleric who grossly violates
the code of conduct imposed by his deity loses all spells and
class features and cannot attain any more levels as a cleric of
that deity. All these penalties remain in effect until he atones.
But what if he doesn’t want to atone? What if a cleric of Hextor
finds new meaning and purpose in serving Heironeous after
a dramatic conversion experience? Such a character need not
become a multiclass ex-cleric of Hextor/cleric of Heironeous.
Instead, Heironeous can simply reinstate the character's cleric
powers once he has proven his loyalty, talent, and ability,

A cleric who changes his patron deity must complete a quest
to prove his devotion to his new patron. The nature of the quest
depends on the deity, and it always clearly reflects the deity's
alignment as well as his or her goals and beliefs, To start the
process, the cleric must voluntarily accept a geas/quest spell cast

 

by a higher-level cleric of his new deity. During the quest, the
cleric has no access to spells or cleric class features—except his
weapon and armor proficiencies, which he does not forfeit.

Upon completing the quest, the cleric receives the benefit of
an atonement spell from a cleric of the new deity. The character
then becomes a cleric of the new deity and is inducted into the
clergy during an appropriate ceremony of the DM's choosing.
After selecting two of the new deity's domains in lieu of his old
ones, the character has all the powers and abilities of his previ-
ous cleric level, plus the granted powers of his new domains.

This method is the only one by which a cleric can change
his deity. The retraining rules can’t be used to accomplish this
task—it is simply too substantial a change in the character's
identity (not to mention his source of power) to chalk up to a
bit of practice in his off hours.

 
