   
  
    
 
    
    

LANGUAGE RETRAINING

Itmade a lot of sense to speak Goblin, Kobold, and Orc at 1st
level, but now that you're mostly fighting giants, demons, and
dragons, it would be nice to understand your new enemies.

The Process

Subtract one language from your list of known languages
and add a new one to the list. It doesn't matter how your
character earned the original language—it could have been
an automatic language for her race, a bonus language gained
froma high Intelligence score, ora language purchased with
skill points.

KILL RETRAINING

Some skills that are particularly valuable at lower levels
become less useful later on, and vice versa. For example, when
everyone in the party is carrying a bag full of antitoxins and
potions of cure light wounds, the need for successful Heal checks
drops dramatically. Whether your character has skill ranks
thar aren't as necessary as they once were, or you just want
to adapt her to new challenges, skill retraining provides a
simple method of adjusting your character's capabilities in
a small but measurable way.

The Process

Subtract up to 4 skill ranks from one skill and add an equal
number of ranks to any one other skill (not including Speak
Language). The skill to which you add the ranks must be a
class skill for one of your character's classes, including a class
he is about to gain with his current level increase. It doesn't
matter whether the lost ranks were purchased as class skills
or as cross-class skills,

Example: You decide to give your 2nd-level ranger a level
of the rogue classas his third character level. At this point, he
could use the skill retraining option to lose 4 ranks in Handle
Animal that he purchased with his ranger skill points and
gain 4 ranks in any other ranger or rogue class skill (such as
Survival or Disable Device). He couldn't gain ranks in any
skill chat isn't on either the ranger or the rogue class skill list
(such as Spelleraft).

SPELL OR POWER RETRAINING

Much like feats, magic spells and psionic powers sometimes
look better when you select them than they do after you've

   
  
   
  
    
  
 
    
    
    
  

used them fora while. And when you're playing a character
with a limited number of options (such as a sorcerer or a
psychic warrior), every spell or power you choose repre-
sents a significant percentage of your character's overall
options. You can't afford to have dead weight taking up
valuable spell slots, so ditch that sleep spell now that the
party isn’t facing foes with low Hit Dice anymore and
replace it with the niftier 1st-level spell you just found in
a recent supplement.

The Process
Exchange up to two currently known spells or psionic powers
for other spells or powers. Each new spell or power must be
usable by the same class and of the same spell level or power
level as the spell or power it replaces.

Special: Bards and sorcerers already have a limited abil-
iry to learn new spells in the place of older ones (see page
28 and page 54 of the Player's Handbook). This method of
retraining allows exchanges over and above what their classes
already permit,

Example: A sorcerer could change lightning bolt to fly or
dispel magic, since all three are 3rd-level sorcerer/wizard spells,
bur he couldn't change it to wall of ice (a 4th-level spell) or to
cure serious wounds (a cleric spell).

Example: A 5th-level sorcerer advancing to 6th level could
use spell retraining to exchange up to two of his known spells
(of any level he knows) for others of the same levels. Then he
could exchange one 0-level or tst-level spell for another just
as any sorcerer could upon attaining 6th level

SUBSTITUTION LEVEL RETRAINING
Substitution levels, as presented in Planar Handbook and
the Races series of supplements, offer characters interesting
ways to adjust the benefits granted by their classes. A wizard
with elf wizard substitution levels, for example, seems a
bit different from a traditional wizard, and that difference
reinforces her racial identity. Since most substitution level
options are offered for relatively low class levels (many at ist
level), you might already have missed one or more chances
to add such flavor to your character. Revising a character to
incorporate this feature amounts to a combination of retroac-
tive continuity (“Of course I've always been a dwarf fighter!")
and getting back to one's roots (“I can't believe I forgot/never
learned that trick!”)

 

RETRAINING COSTS

in general, retraining is assumed to be a background activity, just
like normal level increases are. However, if your DM's campaign
requires the PCs to spend time and/or money to improve their
skills, gain feats, learn spells, or acquire class benefits (DMG 197),
the DM can apply similar requirements when characters use the
retraining rules presented in this chapter, The table below shows
some suggested time and gp costs for the various retraining op-
tions. These costs are purely optional; the game works perfectly
well without ther, just as it works without requiring downtime
in order to attain higher levels.

Retraining Option Time GP Cost

Class feature 1 week/2 levels’ 500 gp/week
Feat 2 weeks 50 gp

Skill 1 week? 25 gp*

Spell 1 day 5 gp/spell level
Substitution level 1week/2levels! 500 gp/week

1 Based on the original level at which the class feature or sub-
stitution level is gained.
2 Per skill rank changed.
