 

Tins, by 8. Prescott

 

 

 

REBUILDING

gallows you to change a small aspect of your char
but rebuilding isa much more drastic step. This method
of character revision allows you to change your character's
abi
race. You can change as many of these aspects at once as you
t effort—and often

 

 
    

ty scores, class levels, background, templates, or even

 

    

wish, though such alterations require gr
great sacrifice 2s well

Since rebuilding constitutes such a mejor change in your
haracter's identity, accomplishing itisn't simply a matter
of erasing an entry on your character sheet and replacing it
with new information. In essence, you are altering reality in
order to rewrite your character's personal history. Therefore
to accomplish a character rebuild, your PC must complete
#-significant and challenging quest. Two

 

 

 

 

h quests are
detailed in this chapter, each one appropriate for a range of
character levels. For instance, the ¢
designed for characters of 6th to 8th level, Characters who
are lower or higher in level gain no benefit from completing
the quest and in fact should be ac
undertaking it

The DM can design new character rebuild quests for your
campaign by using the ones presented here as examples
Each should be appropriate for a small range of chat
levels (r
to adjust the challenge for characters within that range.

Ideally, a character rebuild should be a relatively rare
event. Unless your world is particularly unusual, constant

 

3ates of Dawn quest is

vely discouraged from

 

 

 

ter

 

cally about three} and include guidelines on how

 

 

   

 

 

ebuilding tends to undermine
ty of both the campaign and

character t
the believa

 

its storyline, Therefore, the quest should

ificant challenge for the characters involved

 

representas
After all, if players consid
they're likely to underestin

JRE REBUILDING
roll aren't exactly the on
ifthar 15 Intelligence seemed like

 

era rebuild quest to bea cakewalk,

 

é value of the reward

 

Sometimes the ability sco
you'd like. And

idi

 

good

    

ve

 

aps it didn't pay off quite the way you'd

 

at the time pee
sped in actual play In such cases, you might eventually

   

 

come to the conclusion that your character would be better
off with different ak

 

ty scores.
When you rebuild ability scores, you can reduce one or

, though the exchange

 

more scores in order to increase oth

 

In effect, the process is similar
the point-buy system detailed

is not necessarily one-

 

to creating a character u

 

on page 169 of the Dungeon Master's Guide

The system is intentionally designed to make improving
high scores more costly than improving low ones, since
improving an already high ability score usually gives a greater
benefit than improving a low score. Also, reducing an ability
om an odd number toan even number isn't very costly

cter, since the reduction probably doesn't result in

 

score

toach

  

 

a significant change to his power

Each time your character completes a rebuild quest, you can
reduce one or mote of his ability scores and then improve

 

one or more differen

 
