 
    
    
    
   
    
   
  
   
  
  

  
 
   
   
  
 
 

 
      

characters that they find enjoyable, and if swapping out a
couple of class levels accomplishes that goal, then doing so
is well worth the effort.

The Process

Each time your character completes a rebuild quest, youcan
change a number of levels equal to 1/5 his character level
(rounded up) from one class to any other class (or classes), For
example, a Sth-level sorcerer could trade a sorcerer level for a
single level of any other class, while a 12th-level barbarian/4th-
level fighter could trade up to four of his class levels (any
combination of fighter and barbarian) for other class levels
of his choice,

Since every class level is a composite of several different

 

elements, use the following step-by-step process to adjust
your character.

Base Attack and Base Save Bonuses: Adjust these bonuses
to match your new array of class levels, just as if you had
created a brand-new character with those classes

Hit Points: If the new class level does not use the same
Hit Die as the current level, don't reroll your character's hit
points. Just add or subtract 1 hit point from your character's
current total per step of difference between the two die sizes
(or 2 hit points per step if the new level is his first level in a
class), For instance, if you trade a fighter level (d10 Hit Die)
to gain a barbarian level (d12 Hit Die), your character would
gain 1 hit point (or 2 hit points if the new level is his first level
of barbarian). If you craded that fighter level for a sorcerer
level (d4 Hit Die), your character would lose 3 hit points (or
6 hit points if the new level is his first level of sorcerer),

Skill Points: If the new class level grants the same number
of skill points as the current level does, you don't have to make
any changes to your character's skill ranks. Even if the class
skill lists are widely different, it's generally more work than
ir's worth to fiddle around with skill ranks in this manner.
If you wish, you can also use the skill retraining option (see
page 194) ro adjust some of your skill ranks.

If the new level does not grant the same number of skill
points as the current level, you must adjust your character's
skill ranks appropriately. If the new level grants fewer skill
points than the current level, remove 1 rank from any skill
per point of difference between the two levels. If the new
level grants more skill points than the current level, you
must immediately spend those skill points using the new
level's class skill list. For example, trading a fighter level co
gaina barbarian level would grant 2 skill points to a character
with Intelligence 10. With those extra points, you could
buy 2 ranks of barbarian class skills or 1 rank of a barbarian
cross-class skill. You must still abide by che skill rank limit
for your character's level in this process.

Spells: If you added or subtracted any levels from a spell-
casting class, adjust your character's spells per day and spells
known appropriately. You can choose any spells the character
must lose from his entire repertoire of the appropriate spell
level. For example, a Sth-level sorcerer who becomes a 4th-level

sorcerer/1stlevel rogue must lose one 1st-level and one 2nd-
level sorcerer spell, bur you can choose these freely—they need
not be the ones the character actually learned at Sth level

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Class Features: Eliminate any class features the char-
acter no longer possesses and add those he gains from his
new levels,

RACE REBUILDING

Changing your character's race is a major decision, since it has
probably affected many of the decisions he has made during
his adventuring career. Still, the concept of major physical
transformation isn’t unknown in fantasy,soa character might
well seek to recreate himself as an entirely different person.
Perhaps you really want to try outa race featured in a new
book, or you've finally reached a high enough level to play
the monstrous character you've always wanted, Whatever
your reason, the race rebuilding rules show you how to keep
playing the same person in a new body.

This method of rebuilding can also be used to recreate
characters brought back by reincarnate and similar effects that
restore characters to life as members of different races.

 

The Process

Each time your character completes a rebuild quest, you

can change his race. First, remove all racial rrairs (including

ability score modifiers) granted by your character's original

race, Then add all the racial traits and ability score modifiers

from the new race. The character's known languages don't

change unless you also choose the language retraining option
page 194)

So far the process sounds simple, right? Unfortunately, it isn't
always easy. Many potential complications can arise from this
aspect of character rebuilding. The sections below demonstrate
how to handle the various issues that might arise.

Feat: If a change of race means that your character no
longer qualifies for a feat she already has, she loses access to
the feat, as well as to any others for which it is a prerequisite.
However, the feat still occupies a feat slor unless you also use
the fear retraining option (see page 193).

Prestige Class: If a change of race disqualifies the
character for a prestige class in which she already has one
or more levels, she loses the benefit of any class features or
other special abilities granted by that prestige class, She
retains the hit points gained from advancing in that class, as
well as any improvements to base attack bonus and base save
bonuses that those levels provided. However,
the class level rebuilding option to replace the now-useless
prestige class levels—and you probably should, unless you're
sure that the character will be able to meet the requirements
again soon.

Racial Substitution Level: Changing your character's race
might well mean that any racial substitution levels (detailed in
the Races series of supplements) she has are no longer appropri-
ate. Treat this situation as if you were replacing one class level
with another (see Class Level Rebuilding, page 197)

Level Adjustment: If your character's original race had
a higher level adjustment than her new race does, you can
replace any lost level adjustment “points” with the same
number of new class levels of your choice.

Lf the new race has a higher level adjustment than the
original race did, you must remove class levels until the

(see

 

 

   

 

ou can use

 
