character's effective character level is the same as it was before
the rebuilding occurred. You can choose the levels lost from
all those that the character has, regardless of the order in
which they were gained.

Racial Hit Dice: Adding or subtracting racial Hit Dice is
perhaps the most complicated part of character rebuilding,
Work with your DM to ensure that he approves of this degre
of change and that you're doing it correctly,

If your character’s original race had any racial Hit Dice,
you must remove all the benefits they granted. This process is
similar to removing class levels (see Class Level Rebuilding,
page 197). Next, replace these racial Hit Dice with class levels
of your choice until the character's effective character level
is the same as it was before the rebuilding occurred.

If your character's new race has any racial Hit Dice, you
must subtract class levels until his effective character level
is the same as it was before the rebuilding occurred. You
can choose the lost levels from all those the character has,
regardless of the order in which they were gained

TEMPLATE REBUILDING
Admit it—when fighting lycanthropes, you've been tempted
at least once to let your character get bitten, in hopes that the
wound infects him, Such a desire is perfectly normal—it's
hard to look at the hybrid form ability modifiers for, say, a
werebear and not imagine the sheer devastation that your
character could wreak if he had that cemplate.

Lycanthropy isn't the easiest template to pick up during an
adventuring career, but it's certainly not the only interesting
option. Whether you've dreamed of playing a celestial dwarf,
ahalf-dragon elf, or a vampire halfling (don't worry, we won't
tell), templates offer the promise of a tantalizingly different
character thar can't be created from mere class levels.

Adding a template can represent a pretty big change for
your character, so make sure your choice is acceptable to your
DM before proceeding. Afterall, transforming your chaotic
good elf wizard into a vampire might not be appropriate for
the style of play the DM has in mind. On the other hand,
“realizing” your character's celestial heritage by adding that
template represents a much smaller overall shift in identity
and would probably cause no problem ar all.

To utilize this rebuild, your character must be able to adopt
the template you want to gain. For example, a warforged fighter
(aliving construct from the EstRxon campaign setting) can't
become a vampire, since thar template can be applied only
to humanoids and monstrous humanoids.

This rebuilding option also works reasonably well for
a character who picks up a template during play (from a

iger's bite, for example), if the DM wants the character's
effective character level to remain consistent with the rest of
the party. If difference in effective character level isn't an
issue, don't worry about these rules—just add the template
and move on with your game.

 

 

 

The Process
Each time your character completes a rebuild quest, you can
add, subtract, or replace one template. For example, a dwarf
paladin could gain the celestial template, a half-dragon elf

 

fighter could lose the halfdragon template, or a celestial
human rogue could replace his celestial remplate with the
fiendish template.

Adding a template is a lot like changing your character's
race, except that he usually doesn't lose many (if any) existing
racial abilities. Follow the guidelines presented in the Race
Rebuilding section above, paying special attention to the
information on gaining or losing Hit Dice and level adjust-
ment. If the character's Hit Die size changes (for instance,
from transformation into a vampire), use the Hit Points entry
in the Class Rebuilding section above to determine the new
hit point toral.

Removing an existing template, on the other hand, requires
youto eliminate any of the template’s effects and benefits, which
might include special attacks, special qualities, skill modifiers,
ability modifiers, bonus feats, and a variety of other bits and
pieces, Use the guidelines in the Race Rebuilding and Class
Rebuilding sections to rework your character's statistics,

Note: This section addresses the DM and is intended primarily
for his or her eyes.

A quest to rebuild a character should excite and frighten
players. I's an adventure few characters would willingly
embark upon and fewer still could survive. To make rebuild-
ing an option ar all levels of play, however, the degree of
challenge must change according to the PCs' level.

‘The two example locations below outline ideas for rebuild
quest objectives, each of which is suitable fora range of character
levels. You can use them as described, modify them to suit
your needs, or devise your own rebuild quest objectives.

Each objective represents the final encounter before a
character can undergo rebuilding. The PCs might need ro
embark on a perilous overland journey or a long dungeon
crawl to getto this encounter, or they might take a short break
from an ongoing adventure to teleport there and have one or
more encounters before returning. Set up the preliminary
adventures in whatever way best fits your game and your
players’ desires

REBUILD QUESTS IN THE GAME

The rebuild quest objectives described here are designed to
allow any type of character rebuild, but in your game, each
might allow only particular kinds of rebuilds. Creating dif
ferent quests for different rebuilds not only makes each one
seem more significant, but it also helps to curtail unplanned
rebuilding by players who are largely satished with their
characters. (“Well, as long as he’s here, Gravar Ore-Killer is
going to turn into a half-celestial umber hulk.") Below are
some suggestions for making these locations serve particular
needs that suit their ambiance

The Gates of Dawn: Character rebuilds relating to divine
magic and fey would be particularly appropriate for this
location, as would any kind of rebuild thar could be viewed
as redemption (for example, exchanging rogue or ninja levels
for fighter levels, changing fighter levels into paladin levels,
or increasing Wisdom:

 

 

 

 
