  
   
   
     
  
  
  
   
 
 
 

   
    
  
   
 
     
 

 
     

The Necrotic Cradle: Character rebuilds that relate to
necromancy (both undeath and aspects of the physical body)
seem particularly appropriate for the Necrotic Cradle. This
location might allow any or all of the following rebuilds:
return an undead character to life, exchange life for undeath
at the cost of an appropriate number of character levels,
change ability scores, or exchange class levels or prestige
class levels for necromancy-themed class levels or prestige
class levels,

HE GATES OF DAWN (LEVELS 6-8)
“Travel to the Lost Isle to become lost. Leave it to fund yourself anew,”
—tThe wizard Faldor Stardust, formerly a druid

Knowing oneself generally leads to a sense of belonging,
but wishing to change one's essential being can bring about
a sense of loss, At the Gates of Dawn, characters can lose
and find themselves, and in that finding rediscover their
true selves,

The Lost Isle floats in a hundred lonely lakes and in none
of them. A place of mysterious magic, it appears out of the
dawn mist on foggy days and then vanishes again when the
sun burns the mist away. Tales told at fireside discourage the
curious from visiting this fey place, warning that most of
those who go there never return, and those who do always
come back profoundly changed.

The Lost Isle might appear in a distant forest lake, or a
crystal-clear pool high in the mountains, or a body of warer
within an area that some race considers sacrosanct. The jour-
ney to the island could be part of the adventure, Perhaps the
PCs must give a great gift ¢o the creatures that guard the lands
around the lake, or sneak past them to avoid being slain on
sight. Alternatively, the PCs might have to go toa lake where
the island has appeared before and wait until conditions are
right for it to come again, weathering assaults by the native
creatures in the meantime.

  

Lore of the Lost Isle and the Gates of Dawn
Characters with ranks in Knowledge (arcana), Knowledge
(local), Knowledge (nature), or Knowledge (religion) can
research the Lost Isle and the Gates of Dawn to learn more
about these places. When a character makes a skill check,
read or paraphrase the appropriate information from one
of the following tables, including the information from
lower DCs.

If the PCs are just looking fora place to rebuild and want
to know if they have heard about such a site, use the entire
table. If they have heard of the Lost Isle specifically and want
to see whether they know more about it, reveal information
only for check results of 20 or higher

After getting information from a Knowledge check, the
characters should be able to learn more about the Lost Isle
by consulting village elders who know the old tales, using
divination magic, or trying to find individuals who were ref-
erenced in the information they have gained. Such resources
can reveal the information for Knowledge DCs higher than
the PCs’ check results, or other any information about the
Lost Isle that youd like the characters to have.

 

 

20

Knowledge (arcana)
pc

   
  
   
  
   
 

   

Result

Certain places of power allow those with mettle to
change themselves in strange and wondrous ways,
In some such places, a person can change nearly any
aspect of her being that she does not like, including
race, weaknesses, abilities, and even personal history.

Knowledge (local)
pc

5

20

23

30

35

Result

Old stories tell of a place called the Lost Isle. These
legends hold that people who return from this place
are always profoundly changed.

The Lost Isle is a mist-shrouded island that sometimes
appears in lakes and large ponds in various parts of
the world. Most who visit it don't come back, and
those who do are never the same again.

A fisherman disappeared while fishing one day,

and everyone thought he had drowned, Two years
later, a ranger came to his village claiming to be the
fisherman, though he didn't resemble the lost man
in the slightest. He said he had been to the Lost

Isle and passed through the Gates of Dawn, The
fisherman's wife had remarried and wanted nothing
to do with the stranger, so he left

The lost fisherman was named Brent Vostig, and his
village was Milford, He disappeared while fishing in
the nearby Misty Lake

Beautiful music is often heard on the shores of the
body of water in which the Lost Isle appears. Those
who hear it should stop up their ears, because the
melody calls them to death.

Knowledge (nature)

oc

15

20

25
Knowh
bc

20
25

30

35

Result

Those who visit a certain fey place called the Lost
Isle either return profoundly changed or never return
at all

The Lost Isle appears in a lake or other body of water
somewhere in the world at dawn each day. As soon
as the sun and wind disperse the fog surrounding
the misty island, it vanishes.

Rumor holds that a fey creature lives on the Lost Isle
as its caretaker.

ledge (religion)

Result

Certain places of power allow those with mettle to
change themselves in strange and wondrous ways.
Rumor holds that in some such places, a person
can ignore the plans of the gods and even change
his race,

The god Pelor created the Gates of Dawn as a

place where the worthy might find a” new dawn"

by changing themselves in some fundamental way.
Eventually, however, he had to take the privilege
away from mortals due to their misuse of it

The Gates of Dawn exist on the Lost Isle, a place that
appears only at sunrise in certain lakes. Only the most
worthy of Pelor's followers have seen it, and the last
reported sighting was at least a hundred years ago.
When Pelor hid the Gates of Dawn, he cursed some
creature to remain on the island as its guardian. No
church records of this ancient event remain, but
legend has it that the curse was punishment for foul
acts committed against Pelor's faithful
