Random Encounters

Characters traveling to the Lost Isle might encounter several
dangerous threats before reaching it. You can either roll 1d4
times on the table below for encounters, or select a few that
you prefer. Even if the journey to the Lost Isle is supposed to be
only a brief detour from the currentadventure, consider giving
the PCs a few warmup encounters with the creatures that lair
near the island before they reach the Gates of Dawn,

Lost Iste ENCOUNTERS

d% Encounter EL
1-20 2seahags (MM 144) 6
21-40  Will-o'-wisp (MM 255) 6
41-60 2 trolls or scrags (MM 58) 7
61-80 Huge water elemental (MM 110) 7
81-90 Athach (MM 21) 8
91-100 Treant (MM 244) 8

The Isle

The Lost Isle appears in a mist-covered lake at dawn every
morning. It remains for 1 hour, or until the sun and wind
disperse the fog from the lake. At that point, the island and
all its occupants are transferred to another lake elsewhere in
the world—often hundreds of miles distant—where a foggy
dawn is occurring. If no such lake is available, the island
instead appears somewhere on Belierin, the third layer of
Elysium (DMG 165), until a lake on the Material Plane has
the proper conditions to host it.

mr

‘yy

Read or paraphrase the following text when the Lost Isle
appears.

The fog coils thickly over the dark waters of the lake as the sky gradu-
ally brightens from night-blue to predawn gray. A faint pinkness
on the horizon grows slowly into a blurry sliver of crimson as the
sun rises, casting its warm glow through the mist. As the first light
of dawn falls on the lake, a curling billow of fog rolls aside like a
parted curtain, revealing the outline of a forested island floating in
the mist-covered water, Moments later, the sweet notes of a distant
pipe drift out over the lake. Sometimes lilting and happy, sometimes
slow and sad, the distant melody seems to call to its listeners, cajol-
ing them closer.

 

A satyr named Fauldwick who long ago committed a ter-
rible transgression against Pelor's worshipers was cursed
by the god to remain on the island forever as caretaker
and guardian of the Gates of Dawn. The satyris effectively
immortal—he does not age, and if slain, he reappears alive
and well on the Lost Isle the next time it appears. Fauldwick
can leave the island, but when it reappears in another place,
he goes with it, no matter how far he was from the lake when
it vanished.

Fauldwick has lost track of how long he has lived on the
Lost Isle. Over the centuries, loneliness has driven him quite

  

 

 

=
a
=
s
s
=

 
