The Gates of Dawn

The Gates of Dawn are made of solid gold, and they swing
open easily. Whenever any creature moves through them in
either direction, the gates emit a blinding flash of light. At
that point, every creature within the Gates of Dawn structure
must make a DC 15 Fortitude save or be blinded for 1d4
rounds. Creatures that succeed on the save are dazzled for
1d+ rounds

Any creature thar passes through the Gates of Dawn imme-
diately changes in the manner desired (that is, the planned
rebuild instantly takes effect), but it also falls unconscious
for 1 hour, even if it is a construct, undead, or other creature
that does not need to sleep or is immune to sleep effects, Any
attempt to damage the Gates of Dawn causes the perpetrator
to fall unconscious in the same manner,

Development: If the PCs want to help Fauldwick break
his curse, a remove curse spell isn’t enough. Fauldwick must
honestly repent his misdeeds, both those he committed in
the distant past and those he has committed since he has
been on the island. Thereafter, he must receive an atonement
spell from a cleric of Pelor. After being trapped on the island
for so long, however, Fauldwick no longer has any interest in
apologizing for his actions,

 

   

Returning to the Lost Isle
If the PCs want to return to the Lost Isle for another rebuild.
you have many options. Fauldwick isstill there, and he might
have new charmed or willing allies. Alternatively, some new
creatures, such as fey or powerful outsiders, might also have
moved in to help guard the Gates of Dawn.

If you don't want the PCs to use the same rebuild location a
second time, the Lost Isle might never appear to them again
Or perhaps it does appear, but the Gates of Dawn have been
destroyed by Fauldwick. For this greater transgression, Pelor
has further punished the satyr by turning him into some
much more more terrible creature.

THE NECROTIC CRADLE
(LEVELS 13-15)
“You must journey through the lands of the dead to be reborn."
—The dwarf Taklinn Ungart, previously a human

 

Encountering death and the undead can spark a deep and
full reevaluation of life, In the Necrotic Cradle, characters
can face their own mortality and remake the threads of life
that brought them to their current existence,

The Necrotic Cradle lies hidden ina place notorious for its
connection to undead, but its exact location and the nature of
the dangers it holds were lost with the lives of the creatures
that now haunt the area as undead, Few living beings know
about the Necrotic Cradle, and fewer still believe it actually
exists. A few nearly lost legends, however, say that it is a
place where birth, death, life, and undeath meet and become
indistinguishable from one another.

The Necrotic Cradle might lie hidden beneath a city of
the dead, or within an ancient burial ground that has served
many races, orat the heart of a dark land haunted by undead
creatures. The journey to this place could be part of the

 

adventure, Perhaps the PCs need to talk to undead creatures
they might ordinarily attack on sight, or maybe they have to
help one undead creature in its struggle against another to
learn the location of the Necrotic Cradle,

Lore of the Necrotic Cradle
Characters with ranks in Knowledge (arcana), Knowledge
local), or Knowledge (religion) can research the Nectoric
Cradle to learn more about it. When a character makes a
skill check, read or paraphrase the appropriate information
from one of the following tables, including the information
from lower DCs.

If the PCs are just looking for a place to rebuild and want
to know if they have heard about such a site, use the entire
table. 1f they have heard of the Nectoric Cradle specifically
and want to see whether they know more about it, reveal
information only for check results of 25 or higher:

Knowledge (arcana)

DC Result

20 Certain places of power allow those with mettle to
change themselves in strange and wondrous ways.
In some such places, an individual can change
nearly any aspect of his being that he does not
like, including race, weaknesses, abilities, and even
personal history.

25 The Necrotic Cradle is a place where an imbalance
exists in the world’s magic. Powerful individuals can
use that imbalance to alter themselves.

30 The Necrotic Cradle is suffused with strange
necromantic and transmutative energies that can
break the boundaries of life and death. Such forces
are likely to attract undead, but they might also
attract outsiders and other strange beings.

The Necrotic Cradle is located beneath the
dead city of Drathmere (or under Tomb Tor in the
Deathlands, or any other place you care to put it),

35 The Necrotic Cradle probably has a guardian, and
that guardian might be an inevitable—a thinking
construct that concerns itself with the laws of the
universe. A place such as the Necrotic Cradle, which
breaks universal laws, could certainly be perceived
as a threat by such creatures

Knowledge (local)

DC Result

20 About 10 years ago, a fallen paladin sought a
legendary place where he could redeem himself.
Legend has it that he emerged from that place not
only redeemed, but also reborn.

25. The paladin was a human who had been transformed
into a vampire by the bite of one of those unholy
creatures. The place in which he sought redemption
was called the Necrotic Cradle.

30 Avampire paladin went to the Necrotic Cradle with
several companions, but only he returned. Rumors
say after he was restored to full-fledged life, he
sought absolution for some crime at the church
where he had received his training.

35 The paladin, whose name was Tanneth Silverwright,
was refused atonement for his evil deeds as a
vampire. Thereafter, he dropped into anonymity and
became a drunkard.

 
