 
    
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

   
 
  
   
     
   
   
 
 
 
   

Knowledge (religion)

DC Result

20 = Certain places of power allow those with mettle to
change themselves in strange and wondrous ways.
Rumor holds that in some such places, a person
can ignore the plans of the gods and even change
his race.

25 Because the Necrotic Cradle is a place where life
and death meet and mix, great changes can be
wrought there. A fallen paladin of Heironeous who
became a vampire once went to the Necrotic Cradle
with several companions seeking to restore himself
to life.

30 The paladin succeeded in his quest, but afterward,
he appeared at the Sliver House of Justice—the
temple where he had been trained—and sought
absolution for some crime.

The Necrotic Cradle is located beneath the
dead city of Drathmere (or under Tomb Tor in the
Deathlands, or any other place you care to put it)

35 The former vampire was refused atonement because

he would not return to the Necrotic Cradle and

fight his old companions, who had refused rebirth

after he had turned them into vampires. One of

these vampires, a half-elf monk named Sashess, is
rumored to haunt the lands around the Necrotic

Cradle still,

After getting information from a Knowledge check, the
characters should be able to learn more about the Necrortic
Cradle by consulting sages, searching through a great library,
using divination magic, or trying to find individuals who
were referenced in the information they have gained. Such
resources can reveal the information for Knowledge DCs
higher than the PCs’ check results, or other any information
about the Necrotic Cradle that you'd like the characters
to have.

Random Encounters

Characters traveling to the Necroric Cradle might encounter
several dangerous threats before reaching it, You can either
roll 1d4 times on the table below for encounters, or select
a few that you prefer. Even if the journey to the Necrotic
Cradle is supposed to be only a brief detour from the cur-
rent adventure, consider giving the PCs a few warmup
encounters with the creatures drawn to the location by the
necromantic energy of the place and its connection to both
life and death,

 
 

 

Necroric CRADLE ENCOUNTERS

d% Encounter EL
01-10 Ice devil (MM 56) 3B
11-30 2 kolyaruts (MM 159) 4
31-40 Nalfeshnee (MM 45) 4
41-60 4 devourers (MM 58) 15
61-80 4 dread wraiths (MM 258) 15
81-90 2 nightwings (MM 197) 16
91-100 Glabrezu (MM 166) and 16

10 Nessian warhounds (MM 151)

   

The Cradle Entrance Cavern
The transmutation magic that flows through the Necrotic
Cradle redirects any attempts to teleport into or out of it. Thus,
whether the PCs arrive by magic or on foot after traversing
catacombs filled with undead, they first see the Necrotic
Cradle from the cavern directly outside it.
Read or paraphrase the following text when the PCs arrive
outside the cavern

A sense of foreboding hangs almost palpably in the air within this
cavern, Ahead, an opening in the rock wall admits a beam of bril-
lant light that silhouettes a titanic armored figure standing just
before the aperture. Beyond it lies a yawning abyss of utter blackness,
and beyond that is the souerce of the light—a bulbows hemisphere
of stone projecting from the cavern wall on the other side of the
abyss, This enormous rock formation looks anything but natural,

 

 

Black cracks in the stone, like the veins in an eye, reach up from
the abyss to surround a gaping hole in the center of the projecting
rock, Through that aperture shines the light.

 

The silhouetted figure isa marut—an inevitable charged with
guarding the Necrotic Cradle. Concerned with the unnatural
blending of life and death in this place, it warns visitors away
from the Necrotic Cradle and attempts to destroy any who
persist in trying to bypass ir

The cavern is roughly 40 feet high, and the light beam-
ing from the Necrotic Cradle provides bright illumination
equivalent to that of daylight. Some areas of the cavern count
as difficult terrain because of the rubble that has fallen from
the ceiling.

Dark Abyss
The Dark Abyss on the map is actually planat rupture that
leads to the Plane of Negative Energy. Any creature that falls
to it drops for 400 feet before crossing over into the Plane
of Negative Energy. Once there, it has no means of return
Necromancy spells cast within or over the Dark Abyss are
function asif affected by the Heighten Spell (two levels) and
Empower Spell feats, but cure spells and other spells that use
positive energy automatically fail.

   

   

 

Creatures; Creatures for three separate encounters are
provided below. Choose a set that corresponds to the average
level of the party.

Party Level 13th; One marut (MM 159), two dread wraiths
(MM 258), and four human vampire sth-level fighters
(MM 250)

Party Level 4th; As the Party Level 13th version, plus a
half-elf vampire monk 9/shadowdancer 4 (MM 251). Ifyou
wish, this vampire could be Sashess, once the companion of
Tanneth Silverwright

Party Level 15th; Two maruts (MM 159) plus the vampire
described in the Party Level 14th version.

Tactics: Regardless of which Encounter Level applies, the
tactics forthe marut (or maruts) remain the same. The marut
periodically activates its air walk and true seeing abilities, and
it has already done so when the PCs arrive, With true seeing, it
should be able ro spor the PCs, and with air walk, it can fight
opponents who take to the air.

  

 

 
