 

  
  
     
    
   
 

  

ree er

beet

the spiral, the creature takes 10 points of damage from
whichever type of energy (positive or negative) damages
it. Any creature killed by this damage is torn apart by the
warring energies and sucked—equipment and all—into
the cracks of the spiral. Then the rebuilt creature comes
into existence in the same place, with full hit points and
all the equipment the previous creature possessed when it
was destroyed. If the creature is killed by some means other
than positive or negative energy while in contact with the
central spiral, it dies and does not get the opportunity to
rebuild. A creature that is not damaged by either negative
energy or positive energy cannot use the Necrotic Cradle
to rebuild.

     

Returning to the Necrotic Cradle
If the PCs want to return to the Necroric Cradle for another
rebuild, you have many options. More maruts or other inevi-
tables might be guarding it. Alternatively, some new creatures,
such as powerful undead or outsiders, might also have moved
in to possess the site,

1f you don’t want the PCs to use the same rebuild location
asecond time, you could rule that the Necrotic Cradle works
only once for any given creature. Or perhaps some creatures
tried to repair the rifts in the plane and nullified the reforming
properties of the Necrotic Cradle in the process. Alternatively,
one of the two abysses might have won the energy battle, clos-
ing one side and opening a two-way gate to an energy plane.

 

OTHER REBUILD QUEST
OBJECTIVES

Here are some other ideas for places the PCs might go to rebuild
and the kinds of creatures they might encounter there.

Bastion of Unborn Souls: Somewhere on the Plane of Positive
Energy floats this place of powerful magic from which all souls
come and to which gods fear to go. Strange beings made of
energy and soulstuff guard it from those who would abuse its
power. This location is fully described in the Bastion of Broken
Souls adventure.

Forge of Remaking: In this strange place, a character must
confront himself and defeat his fears or die trying. By doing so,
he can change his truename and thus change his being, This
location is fully detailed in Tome of Magic,

    

Morpheus the Changer: The titan Morpheus has strange
powers to reshape others through their dreams. Those who wish
his aid must defeat the titan in single combat, because he uses
this ability only on those who can best him.

Seldarine Pool: The magic waters of the Seldarine Pool are in
a hidden shrine to the elf gods. Legend holds that washing in
the waters of the Seldarine Pool can heal wounds and cure ills,
but that drinking from it grants the imbiber the power to alter
his being. A tribe of wild elves fiercely guards the pool, killing all
who come to it—even other elves

Shattershear Cliffs: The winds that rip at someone falling from
the Shattershear Cliffs can actually tear a body to pieces and
put it back together. Anyone who can make it there, win her way
past the guardian beast, leap from the roc's nest, and somehow
survive the fall, can remake herself,
